One of the big topics of conversation at the 2022 German-Africa Energy Forum in Hamburg was Africa's abundant reserves of oil and gas. In 2017, the African continent reportedly had 148.6 trillion cubic meters of proven gas reserves — more than 7% of the global reserves. In 2019, Nigeria led crude oil exports in Africa, with more than 2 million barrels per day of oil sold on the international market. In the same year, Africa's overall oil and gas production reached 327.3 million metric tons. As of 2020, Africa's contribution to global oil exports reached nearly 9%. With a sixth package of EU sanctions targeting Russian oil now in force, Germany is keen to ditch Russian oil and gas for good and is looking at African gas as alternative. The June 1–2 Hamburg meeting was an opportunity for key players in the German and African energy sectors to create win-win partnerships. Many German companies are keen to finance African initiatives to produce hydrogen energy for export to Europe. And African nations are also keen to power up using gas. They see it as a transitional fuel because natural gas produces lower carbon emissions than fossil fuels like oil and coal. South Africa is one of Germany's most important trading partners in sub-Saharan Africa. Gas shouldn't be overlooked, said Ndiarka Mbodji, the CEO of a Berlin-based company providing energy solutions to Africa. "You can see at the moment, with the Ukraine war that we are going through that the need to diversify the source of energy," Mbodji told DW. " And if we look at the resource that Africa has in terms of, for example, gas, which is a source of transition, we can see its importance in Africa." The forum came on the heels of German Chancellor Olaf Scholz's visit to Africa last month where he signed deals to support the necessary infrastructure to extract and export oil and gas to Europe. Energy development projects are capital-intensive and require private-public partnerships, according to Ethiopia's energy minister, Sultan Wali. "African governments cannot carry out these projects alone," Wali said. "They need financial support from Germany and other rich western countries. This forum will create a strong ground for everyone." "Because of the war in Ukraine, you can see at the moment the need to diversify energy sources," said Ndiarka Mbodji, a Senegalese-French national and founder of Berlin-based Kowry Energy. "Africa holds the key to resolving Europe's energy crisis. And if we look at Africa's resources, for example gas, you cannot underestimate its importance," she explained. Last month, the European Commission announced plans to import 10 million tons of renewable hydrogen annually to replace fossil fuels in several industries and vehicles. African nations are keen to have a piece of that business. The African Union Commissioner for Energy and Infrastructure Amani Abou-Zeid said that for Europe to overcome its current security challenges, it needs to deal first with the energy crisis. And this means building strong partnerships with Africa. "Europe is not secure until we are all secure," Abou-Zeid said. "And the security of Europe now is not just about the weapons. It's about fuel, it's about energy, it's about food," Abou-Zeid said. "So, no one is safe in Europe or secure in Europe until we are all safe and secure." I love to travel to Comoros, a volcanic archipelago in the Indian Ocean between Mozambique and Madagascar. It's the clearest seawater I've seen in Africa. I also love the island state for its breathtaking landscapes, which have been hardly touched by tourism. The climate here is tropical year-round, making it perfect for a vacation away from the crowds. Those who love luxurious tourism offerings should visit Mauritius. The island country in the Indian Ocean has many upscale hotels with private beaches and spacious facilities. It's not only an exciting mix of Africa and Asia in the cultural sense, but the scenery is very diverse too, with rainforests, mountains, stunning beaches and impressive waterfalls. Although it's now very popular with tourists, the Tanzanian island of Zanzibar is still one of my favorite destinations. Apart from the beautiful beaches, you have to visit Stone Town, the oldest part of Zanzibar City. Here you can get a feel for the island's culture while walking through walk through its narrow alleys — every evening there is delicious street food at the Forodhani Food Market. The last islands on my list, this time in the West African Gulf of Guinea, are Sao Tome and Principe, home to just over 200,000 people. Surprisingly, the islands are largely undiscovered by tourists — it's also not easy to get there, as few flights are offered. It's not difficult to find flights from abroad to the popular tourist destination of Cape Town. The port city on the southwest coast of South Africa is located on a peninsula dominated by the impressive Table Mountain. Although it's not exactly a hidden gem, I live here and love it: Where else can you surf in the morning, go climbing in the afternoon and visit a vineyard in the evening? "The smiling coast of Africa" lives up to its name. In The Gambia, it's easy to meet friendly people and relax on great beaches — there is also good tourism infrastructure. The nickname "smiling coast" also has a geographical meaning: When you look at Africa's smallest non-island country from above, its shape reminds you of a smile. The people of Sudan are incredibly kind. A Sudanese friend of mine jokingly calls it "aggressive friendliness," as one is constantly invited for tea. Few tourists travel here, however, as many governments do not recommend it due to armed conflicts in parts of the country. If you do come to Sudan, don’t miss the Meroe Nubian pyramids, which are smaller than those in Egypt but no less impressive. The vast and sparsely populated country in southwest Africa is home to the impressive Namib Desert with its high sand dunes. A trip through the country is great, but be prepared for the long drives. Namibia is also popular with safari tourists, as it is home to a variety of animal species. If you are looking for adventure rather than peace and quiet, you should visit the city of Lagos in Nigeria, home to around 20 million people. It is loud, hectic and stressful, but the cultural scene is vibrant, with lots of galleries, fashion and music. I recommend the New Afrika Shrine music venue, where Fela Kuti's son Femi often plays with his band. Maputo, the capital of Mozambique in southeast Africa, has a very special charm. Mozambican culture, Eastern Bloc architecture and well-preserved buildings from the Portuguese colonial period can all be found in this fascinating place. Those who find it too stressful can head to one of the beautiful beaches nearby. Author: Adrian Kriesch Despite such a positiveoutlook for Africa to provide renewable hydrogen to Europe— half of its population lacks access to clean energy. As a result, many households depend on burning biomass for energy. For example, 95% of Ethiopians depend on biomass fuels, which directly impacts land production, according to Ethiopia's junior minister Wali. Nevertheless, Ethiopia is trying to shift from hydroelectricity production to renewable energy, he told DW. "Currently, we are changing our energy mix ratios from being dependent on only hydropower to a diversified energy source like solar energy, wind energy, geothermal and also other reliable sources," Wali said. "Therefore, it is a vital forum for us to have a robust discussion about private and public partnerships. Ethiopia boasts of huge ground and surface water reservoirs and hopes to negotiate with financiers to produce hydrogen energy. African countries also plan to increase the production of solar energy The African Energy Chamber (AEC), a non-profit organization that advocates for German-Africa partnerships, said Africa needs innovative and integrated solutions to make energy poverty history by 2030. In a press statement released ahead of Chancellor Scholz's visit to Africa last month, the AEC said that load shedding had become a daily occurrence despite holding significant natural gas and hydrogen potential. Moreover, it is only expected to worsen unless proactive measures are taken to scale up generation capacity. "900 million lack access to clean cooking solutions largely attributed to lack of adequate investment and energy transition trends," the statement read. In South Africa, however, the situation is different. Although President Cyrill Ramaphosa's government  has developed a hydrogen policy, small companies that want to support its transition to renewable energy lack the necessary capital. Zanele Mavuso, the Bambili energy group executive chairperson, based in South Africa, said, "it's not enough for her government only to lay a strong foundation for renewable hydrogen energy." "It's about making sure you've got the capital to support the industry's growth. In addition, it would help if you had the finance to ensure that renewable energy projects can start and be sustainable over time," Mavuso explained. While most African nations produce little carbon, they are most affected by the consequences of climate change and, at the same time, are the key partner in the decarbonization of the global economy. Observers are keen to see what an African-led energy transition will look like and how African nations will become exporters of green energy and hubs for green-powered production. Edited by Keith Walker