Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy speaks of a 'historic week' as Kyiv awaits EU candidate status Moscow says its forces seized the village of Metiolkine near Sievierodonetsk Austria to reopen coal plant due to reduced gas deliveries from Russia This story was last updated at 08:05 UTC/GMT Russia's blockade of Ukrainian grain is a war crime, EU foreign policy chief Josep Borrell said on Monday. "We call on Russia to deblockade the (Ukrainian) ports. It is inconceivable, one cannot imagine that millions of tons of wheat remain blocked in Ukraine while in the rest of the world people are suffering hunger," he told reporters when arriving at a meeting of European Union foreign ministers in Luxembourg. "This is a real war crime, so I cannot imagine that this will last much longer." Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy has vowed to take back areas of southern Ukraine that are currently under Russian occupation. "We will not hand over the south to anyone," Zelenskyy said, promising to retake "everything that belongs to us." Zelenskyy's comments came shortly after returning from a visit to the southern front lines. Russian troops seized large parts of southern Ukraine shortly after the conflict began at the end of February, having already annexed the Crimean peninsula in 2014. On Monday evening Russian journalist Dmitry Muratov will auction off his Nobel Peace Prize medal. The proceeds will go directly to UNICEF in its efforts to help children displaced by the conflict in Ukraine. Muratov, who was bestowed the honor in October 2021, helped found the independent Russian newspaper Novaya Gazeta and was the publication's editor-in-chief when it shut down in March amid the Kremlin's clampdown on journalists and public displays of dissent over the war. The reporting focuses on the Russian invasion of its neighbor, a topic which has become increasingly difficult to independently report on due to the threats from the Kremlin. Nobel Peace Prize laureate Muratov was attacked with paint on a train in Russia on April 7. Novaya Gazeta had long been critical of the Kremlin and several of its staff have been killed over the years. It was Muratov's idea to auction off his prize, having already said he was donating the accompanying $500,000 (€475,000) to charity. He wanted to make the donation in order to "give the children refugees a chance for a future." Australia has sent Ukraine 14 M113AS4 armored personnel carriers (APC) to Ukraine, Australia's defense ministry announced. Australian Defense Minister Richard Marles said that the vehicles were loaded onto a Ukrainian plane last week. "Australia stands with Ukraine, and again calls on Russia to cease its unprovoked, unjust and illegal invasion of Ukraine," Marles said in a statement. The vehicles are part of the AU$285 million (€188 million, $198 million) in funds Canberra has earmarked for Ukraine. China's crude oil imports from Russia increased 55% in May compared to a year earlier. Russia is now China's top supplier, having edged out Saudi Arabia. Refiners have cashed in on discounted supplies amid sanctions on Moscow. Imports of Russian oil totaled nearly 8.42 million tons, according to the Chinese General Administration of Customs. The head of the European Commission, Ursula von der Leyen, said she was confident Ukraine will be conferred EU candidate status. "I firmly believe that we will get a positive decision, that we will get support," Von der Leyen told German public broadcaster ARD. "This is also a historic decision that the European Council now has to make," she said, adding that she was "confident" of Ukraine's prospects. On Friday, the commission came out in favor of giving Ukraine and neighboring Moldova candidate status. The EU foreign ministers are due to discuss the impact of Russia's invasion on global food security and European energy security at a meeting of its Foreign Affairs Council in Luxembourg. Top diplomat Josep Borrell said on Sunday that the EU was considering providing Egypt with up to €100 million ($105 million) to support the country's agricultural sector and food reserves. Egyptian Foreign Minister Sameh Shoukry is expected to join the ministers on Monday. African countries have been left especially vulnerable by the war's impact on global food distribution. Ukraine and Russia are both major exporters of wheat and sunflower oil. Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy warned that Russia was likely to intensify its "hostile activity" this week, as Kyiv awaits a historic decision from the European Union on its membership bid. "Only a positive decision is in the interests of the whole of Europe," he said in his evening address Sunday. "Obviously, we expect Russia to intensify hostile activity this week ... We are preparing. We are ready. "Moscow's forces have been attacking eastern Ukraine for weeks as they try to seize the Donbas region, after being repelled from other parts of the country. Ukraine's armed forces said on Sunday they had pushed back Russian attacks on villages near Sievierodonetsk. Lysychansk, which sits across a river from Sievierodonetsk, is also under heavy bombardment. NATO's chief Jens Stoltenberg meanwhile warned that the war could grind on "for years" and urged Western countries to be ready to offer long-term military, political and economic aid. Russia said that its forces have seized the village of Metiolkine near Sievierodonetsk in the Luhansk region. The village had fewer than 800 inhabitants before the invasion began. It is located around six kilometers (four miles) southeast of the major industrial center of Sievierodonetsk. Ukraine's military said Russian forces had seen "partial success" in the area. Sievierodonetsk has been the site of fierce fighting between Moscow and Kyiv. Pictured is the aftermath of a military strike on the Azot chemical plant where remaining Ukrainian forces in the city have been holed up. Austria's government has announced that it will reopen a previously closed coal power station on account of shortages due to reduced Russian gas deliveries. The station is located in the southern city of Mellach in the state of Styria. The Austrian chancellery said that authorities will work together with the country's main supplier Verbund to reopen the station. Austria's Environmental Ministry told the APA news agency that the process will likely take several months. Moldovan President Maia Sandu signed a law banning the broadcasting of news programs, political TV shows, and war films from countries that have not ratified the European Convention on Transfrontier Television, such as Russia. EU Special Representative for Human Rights Eamon Gilmore arrived in Kyiv to show his solidarity with Ukraine. Ukraine's Verkhovna Rada parliament passed a law banning music created by Russian citizens from the radio, TV, and public spaces. Russian forces targeted a Ukrainian command post while senior Ukrainian military officers were holding a meeting, Russian Defense Ministry said. The ministry said the strike killed over 50 Ukrainian "generals and officers." Leading Russian policy figure Konstantin Kosachev slammed Lithuanian restrictions on rail transport between the Russian exclave of Kaliningrad and the rest of Russian territory, calling them an "illegal" ban and an "incipient blockade." Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy vowed to "take back everything that belongs to us" in the south of Ukraine. An intelligence update from the British Ministry of Defense said that Russian troops invading Ukraine are probably suffering from "especially troubled morale" amid high casualties, combat stress, pay problems and perceived poor leadership. You can revisit our updates from Sunday here. jsi, sdi/sri (AP, AFP, dpa, Reuters)