Johann Sebastian Bach is now considered one of the greatest classical composers of all time. The Baroque composer is known in music history as a master of polyphonic music. "Bach is famous today for performing incredible miracles on the piano and organ," Bachfest artistic director Michael Maul told DW. "He composed fugues and preludes in all keys that have fascinated generations of musicians and composers." This year's Leipzig Bach Festival will feature two of his major keyboard works. "The Art of Fugue," played by Russian pianist Daniil Trifonov, and the "Well-Tempered Clavier," the first part of which will be interpreted by Hungarian pianist Andras Schiff, with the second part being played by Canadian pianist Angela Hewitt. "The Well-Tempered Clavier" is one of Bach's most famous instructional works and celebrates its 300th anniversary this year. Johann Sebastian Bach was born in Eisenach in March 1685 and died in Leipzig in 1750, where he served as musical director at the St. Thomas Churcht for 27 years until his death, directing, among other things, the famous St. Thomas Boys Choir, which had existed since 1212. With over 800 years of choral history, the choir is one of the oldest boys' choirs in Germany. Despite this long tradition, the successive number of cantors were only counted following Bach's death. Andreas Reize, new Thomaskantor in Leipzig In late 2021, Swiss conductor and church musician Andreas Reize took over from his predecessor Gotthold Schwarz as the church's 18th musical director after Bach. The St. Thomas Boys Choir traditionally opens the Bach Festival, this time on June 9 with works by Bach himself and his son Carl Philipp Emanuel Bach. The Bach Archive Leipzig has just published a new complete edition of the works of the younger Bach. Johann Sebastian Bach was born into a large musically inclined family. His relatives and ancestors were active in northern Germany and especially in the present-day states of Thuringia, Saxony and Saxony-Anhalt. They met once a year for family musical celebrations. "The Bach family invented the Bach festivals, so to speak," says Michael Maul. In fact, this is also the theme of the Leipzig Bach Festival this year which bears the motto "Bach -— We Are Family," which will feature choirs from all over the world and works by Johann Sebastian Bach's ancestors and descendants. Copy (after 1750) of the family tree of the Bach family after a lost original by Johann Sebastian Bach Johann Sebastian Bach's father, Johann Ambrosius Bach, was employed as a town piper, that is, as a town musician. His cousin, Johann Christoph Bach (1642-1703), played as town organist in Eisenach and is said to have been a great role model for Johann Sebastian Bach. At the age of 10, Johann Sebastian Bach lost his parents and lived for several years with his older brother, Johann Christoph Bach (1671 to 1721), who was also an organist and taught him to play the piano. Later, Bach compiled the compositions of his ancestors and the works of composers who influenced him in the "Old Bach Archive." In it, Bach listed 53 family members, most of whom were active as church or court musicians. In six concerts on "Bach's Roots," the works of his ancestors and his role models, such as Dietrich Buxtehude or Heinrich Schütz, will be heard at the upcoming Bach Festival. Even though Bach learned to play various instruments, the organ was his mainstay. At the age of 18, he received his first organist position in Arnstadt. In Weimar, he was appointed concert master in 1714 and then rose to become "Kapellmeister" (or conductor) to Prince Leopold of Anhalt-Köthen in Köthen. There, in 1722, he also composed the famous "The Little Notebook for Anna Magdalena," written for his second wife, as well as the "Well-tempered Clavier," a cycle of 24 preludes and fugues through all major and minor keys. In May 1723, Bach then took up his post for life as "Thomaskantor" or music director at the St Thomas Church in Leipzig. As the teacher of the St. Thomas' Boys Choir, he had to provide musical accompaniment for the masses on all Sundays and holidays. Consequently, he composed an average of one cantata per week, at least during his first year in office. What he considered as "utility music" is today described by many as "divine music" that inspires people worldwide. In 2023, these Leipzig cantatas will be sung in a separate cycle at the Bach Festival. It was also in Leipzig that Bach composed his "Christmas Oratorio" and his great "Passions," namely the "St. John Passion" and the "St. Matthew Passion." While Bach's piano and organ works continued to be cultivated by subsequent generations, his vocal works were all but forgotten publicly until the 19th century. In the19th century, people rediscovered Bach's vocal music. "Felix Mendelssohn Bartholdy performed Bach's great St. Matthew Passion again for the first time in Berlin in 1829, and everyone was totally enthralled and fascinated by this complex yet evocative music," Michael Maul explains. Mendelssohn Bartholdy adapted the work to the taste of the time and had it performed in a shortened version with a large orchestra. Under Thomaskantor Andreas Reize, the St. Thomas Boys Choir will perform the St. Matthew Passion at the Bach Festival on June 17. DW will stream the concert and make it available as a video on demand on the "DW Classical Music" YouTube channel. Under the motto "Bach - We Are Family" the Leipzig Bach Festival will play host to international Bach choirs The first Bach societies were founded around the time of rediscovery of Bach's music by Felix Mendelssohn Bartholdy. The oldest of these was the Leipzig Bach Society, whose founding members included the composers Robert Schumann and Franz Liszt. In 1900, the "Neue Bachgesellschaft" (New Bach Society) was founded in Leipzig, which to this day has made it its mission to promote and disseminate Johann Sebastian Bach's music. The society runs the Bach Museum in Eisenach and invites visitors to Bach festivals in alternating cities every year. This year, together with the Leipzig Bach Festival, it celebrates the great international Bach family. As the Bach Archive has discovered, there are now more than 300 Bach societies in Germany and around the world. Among the most recent is, for example, the "Sociedad de Bach" in Paraguay, founded in 2008, or the "Soft Bach Society Yamaguchi" from Japan from 2013. In Malaysia, conductor and founder David Chin has been celebrating his own Bach Festival every year since 2015. For Bach Festival Director Michael Maul, this is proof that Bach's music continues to inspire people around the world today. "We discover more and more secrets because this music has so many facets. You can listen to it again and again and explore it, and you will always come across new beauties and special features." Leipzig, home to the Gewandhaus concert hall and orchestra, as well as the famous Thomaner boys' choir, is a city of music. Johann Sebastian Bach lived and worked here from 1723 until 1750. The city even has a well-known opera house. Lonely Planet had many reasons to rank Leipzig No. 1 in German travel destinations, from music to alternative culture. Leipzig rocks! Leipzig is booming, drawing young people in particular. They are a major element of the lively, creative charm of the city. For instance, on the Karl-Liebknecht-Strasse, known locally as KarLi, you can find a mix of bars, unusual shops and some adventurous lofts in former factory buildings. Lonely Planet writes: "The city is young, exciting, multifaceted and full of vibrance." A must-see attraction is the Plagwitz district with its Karl-Heine-Strasse. Here, the city's work-in-progress charm is evident — new pubs have opened next to former factories, and cheap studios and offices attract artists and startups, while graffiti adorns the buildings that have not yet been developed. Many art, cultural and street events take place here, like the "Westpaket" flea market. Leipzig has many restaurants and cafes — which have reopened in compliance with strict COVID-19 rules — where you can enjoy the atmosphere of the old town. The club scene has also seen a revival. At the legendary Distillery Club, for example, cocktails can be enjoyed in the outdoor seating area while a DJ spins tunes. Dancing, however, remains strictly forbidden. The many vacant areas in the city leave room for new ideas to develop, with former industrial buildings being used for parties and events. But there are many buildings that remain empty and are not in use — exploring them can be a fascinating activity in itself. A renowned example of innovative development is the conversion of a former cotton mill factory building, the Spinnerei. With studios, galleries and exhibitions, this is the epicenter of Leipzig's art scene. The Eigen + Art gallery, based in this compound, created the New Leipzig School — a modern art movement — known internationally, with Neo Rauch as its most famous representative. Leipzig is a city popular with students. Leipzig University was founded in 1409, making it the second-oldest in Germany. Famous poets like Gotthold Ephraim Lessing and Johann Wolfgang von Goethe studied here. The centrally located main building of the university, with its church — which got a new look in 2012 — brings student life into the heart of the city. In Leipzig, everything can be reached by bicycle — including the many man-made lakes surrounding the city. A popular gathering place is Cospudener See, a lake which is also known locally as "Cossi." It was created when a deep opencast mine was flooded. Its shores host Saxony's longest sandy beach, which is a well-known nudist zone. Leipzig's inner city has ample green space, including Lene Voigt Park (pictured) and Clara Zetkin Park. Both get a lot of use when the weather is good, especially during the summer months. Many young people spend their time here playing volleyball, barbequing or simply lounging in a hammock. Every year on Pentecost, an extraordinary spectacle happens in Leipzig's parks. Thousands of people dressed in black flock to the Wave Gothic Festival — the biggest of its kind in the world. For three days, "goths" put themselves on show while also attending concerts and parties. But not all of them wear just black — outfits include opulent Victorian dresses, wigs and artistic headwear. Author: Elisabeth Yorck von Wartenburg This article was originally written in German. 