Monkeypox infections have been registered in more than 40 countries, including the United Kingdom, Germany and Spain. In response, the World Health Organization summoned an emergency meeting on June 23, where experts will decide whether the disease threatens public health on a larger scale. The WHO may declare a Public Health Emergency of International Concern, but a decision could take several days. If the WHO declares an emergency, all that means for now is that doctors should increase their attention and inform their patients about the disease. Experts say it is highly unlikely that monkeypox will develop into a pandemic. Unlike SARS-CoV-2, the monkeypox virus is only transmitted by close contact with an infected person. But some groups of people, such as health care workers who treat people with monkeypox, or friends and family of infected people, should take additional precautions. Despite its name, monkeys are not natural hosts of the virus. Researchers believe the main hosts, or "reservoirs" as they are known, are species of African rodents, such as Gambian pouched rats, dormice and African squirrels. It is thought that the virus first spread to humans in the 1970s through handling of bushmeat or from bites or scratches from infected animals. Researchers say that monkeypox outbreaks are a cost of our increasingly frequent contact with wild animals due to deforestation and poaching. One major route of monkeypox transmission to non-African nations was via animal transportation around the world. For example, experts traced a small outbreak in 2003 in the US to rodents transported from Ghana to a US pet store. A rash like this is the main symptom of monkeypox In the current outbreak, it appears that most of the infection clusters have no direct travel links to countries in Africa where the virus is endemic among wild animals. That suggests that monkeypox is being transmitted primarily human-to-human. The exact mechanism of transmission remains unknown, but the virus is thought to enter the body through broken skin, the respiratory tract, or the eyes, nose or mouth. Transmission between humans occurs primarily through close contact with an infected person. A cluster of cases was detected in early 2022 among men who had sex with other men, creating a stigma, and monkeypox was wrongly labeled a "gay disease" — or as only infecting same-sex couples. The WHO says the virus can spread through any group of people in close contact. And it is currently unknown whether the virus can be transmitted specifically through sexual transmission. Anyone who has had contact with infected people — for example, medical and health care workers or people who have confirmed cases of monkeypox among their friends or relatives — should take protective measures. The WHO says these are the most important steps to prevent transmission: Many people older than 50 were vaccinated against smallpox (also known as variola virus) as children. Smallpox has similar symptoms to monkeypox but is now considered eradicated due to the vaccine. Doctors say the smallpox vaccination may protect against monkeypox with an efficacy of about 85%. Even if it doesn't prevent infection, they say immunized people are better protected against a severe infection. Smallpox vaccination also protects against monkeypox The smallpox vaccine Imvanex is approved as protection against monkeypox in many countries. However, it is currently not recommend as a prevention against monkeypox for the general population, but only for certain risk groups. The German Standing Commission on Vaccination (STIKO) recommends vaccination in these cases: The vaccination consists of two doses. Medical professionals administer them at least 28 days apart. For at-risk individuals who were vaccinated against smallpox as a child, one dose is sufficient to improve the existing immune response. Anyone who develops symptoms such as rash, fever, or head and joint pain may have monkeypox. Those affected should call their doctor and local health authority immediately. Infected individuals must isolate themselves from other people until the rash clears. This can take up to four weeks. In most cases, the disease has a mild course. This article was originally written in German. It's not just humans who need to get their regular check-ups. Animals nneed to see a doctor every once in a while too, to make sure everything is as it should be. Here, lioness Julie is attended to by a veterinary surgeon at the Yorkshire Wildlife Park in the UK. She's getting an ultrasound to have her gastrointestinal tract checked. Veterinarians also need to make sure that baby animals born in zoos are healthy. This little lion was born at the Copenhagen Zoological Garden in Denmark. The vets determined the gender of the four sibling cubs, an important factor when it comes to breeding and deciding which animals the zoo keeps, and which it passes on to other parks. Not something you see every day: This boa constrictor is examined at the veterinary clinic of the Ministry of the Environment in El Salvador's capital, San Salvador. Animals found by people or seized by the police are taken to the clinic and checked by vets before they're reintegrated into their natural habitats. During the COVID-19 pandemic, we've been told time and again that the best protection against the virus is to get vaccinated. Many zoos across the world applied that to their animals as well. In January 2022, orangutan Sandai received a dose of a COVID-19 vaccine at the Buin Zoo in Chile. Veterinarians play important roles for entire communities. On Lamu island, Kenya, donkeys have been bred for decades to provide transportation for people and goods. While motorcycles are becoming more important, the donkeys are still part of the island's everyday life. This one was treated for a leg injury. Cows' owners pick out the bull whose DNA they think is going to make for the best offspring. Then a veterinarian, or "inseminator," places a medical device with a portion of the chosen bull's sperm inside the cow's uterus ― by going through the rectum. If things go well, a calf is born roughly 280 days later. Some wild animals need to be tranquilized before a veterinarian can even come close. It could be to keep the animals still while they're chipped for tracking purposes, or while they undergo a necessary health procedure or, as in this case, for transport. Kenyan wildlife services relocated this and other black rhinoceroses in an effort to repopulate certain habitats. A vet is preparing to intubate this sea turtle ahead of a surgery to remove a fishing hook from the animal's oesophagus on the French island of Corsica. Many marine animals suffer severe health consequences as the fishing industry intrudes into their habitats. The 2019 summer bushfire season in Australia was devastating. Many endangered animal species were severely affected by the fires. On Kangaroo Island, an estimated 90% of the koala population died in the flames. This baby koala was saved and treated at the Kangaroo Island Veterinary Clinic. Vets use some of the same machinery for their patients as doctors do for humans. Here, a striped owl is having a CT scan at a veterinary clinic in Envigado, Colombia. Vets wanted to find out whether it had recovered from a previous infection. The illness was caused by common mould spores and affected the owl's the respiratory system. Meet Monika. The dog was rescued by volunteers and had to have all four limbs amputated. Vets at a clinic in Novosibirsk, Russia, fitted her with titanium prosthetics. The complex procedure was expensive and Monika didn't have an owner. But a number of strangers jumped in and financed everything via crowdfunding. Now Monika has a new lease on life. Author: Carla Bleiker