Police were reported to have used tear gas against members of the War Veterans' Organization of the former guerrilla Kosovo Liberation Army (KLA) as they tried to enter the national parliament on Monday. The veterans accuse authorities of overlooking the role they played in achieving statehood for Kosovo in a 1998-1999 uprising against Serbian rule. The veterans had entered the yard of the building where parliament is situated and tried to enter the hall of the building in the capital, Pristina. Police formed a cordon to keep them at bay. Some 2,000 protesters had gathered for the protests, many of them waving KLA flags. Police said protesters had "tried to enter by force and damage the parliament building doors" and had also used tear gas, as well as "hard objects" against officers. Police denied using tear gas, although at least one officer appeared to be shown doing so by local news media. Officials reported that a civilian and two police officers were injured in the clashes. The Kosovo conflict intensified at the end of the 1990s. Ten thousand people were displaced. When all efforts to bring peace to the region failed, NATO started air strikes on Serbian military bases and strategic targets in Serbia on March 24, 1999. After 11 weeks, Serb leader Slobodan Milosevic finally backed down. Protests against Belgrade's attempts to undermine the rights of the Albanian majority in Kosovo began in the mid-1980s. The 1990s saw a massive increase in Serbian repression. Ibrahim Rugova (l.), who took the reins of Kosovo's political movement in 1989, called for non-violent resistance and sought to convince Slobodan Milosevic (r.) to change course — to no avail. An armed resistance formed in Kosovo, in which the self-proclaimed Kosovo Liberation Army (UCK) began a brutal guerrilla war. The UCK undertook violent attacks on Serbia as well as against Albanians it considered to be collaborators. Serbia retaliated by torching houses and looting businesses. Hundreds of thousands of people fled. The war grew increasingly brutal and Serbian forces stepped up attacks on civilians in an attempt to destroy the UCK and its supporters. Scores of people fled into the forests. Thousands of Kosovo Albanians were loaded onto trains and trucks to be transported to the border, where they were thrown out without passports or other personal documents that could prove they were from Kosovo. In February 1999, the USA, France, the United Kingdom, Russia and Germany convened a meeting of warring parties in Rambouillet, France, in an attempt to establish autonomy for Kosovo. Kosovan representatives accepted the proposal, yet Serbia was unwilling to compromise. The negotiations collapsed. On March 24, 1999, NATO began bombing military and strategic targets in Serbia and Kosovo in an attempt to end violence against the Albanians. Germany also participated in the bombing. "Operation Allied Force" became the first war in NATO's 50-year history — one conducted without the backing of the UN Security Council. Russia harshly criticized the intervention. Beyond military targets, NATO also bombed supply lines, train tracks and bridges. Over the course of 79 days and nights, allied forces flew more than 37,000 sorties. Some 20,000 missiles and bombs rained down on Serbia. Many civilians were killed: "collateral damage," in the words of NATO. Industrial sites were also targeted. In Pancevo, near Belgrade, NATO bombs hit a chemical and fertilizer factory. Massive amounts of toxic substances were released into rivers, the ground and the skies — resulting in grave health risks for the nearby civilian population. Moreover, Serbia accused NATO of deploying uranium-enriched munitions as well as cluster and fragment bombs. State television offices in Belgrade were attacked in an attempt to deprive Slobodan Milosevic of his most important propaganda tool. Although the Serbian government was warned of an impending attack in time, Belgrade withheld that information. Sixteen people were killed when the site was bombed. NATO bombs in Kosovo inadvertently hit a group of Albanian refugees, killing an estimated 80 people. NATO also claimed that the accidental bombardment of the Chinese Embassy in Belgrade was another case of "collateral damage." Four people were killed in the misguided attack, leading to a diplomatic crisis between Beijing and Washington. In early June, Belgrade signaled that Slobodan Milosevic might be prepared to surrender, prompting NATO to end its campaign on June 19. The final toll of the war: thousands of dead and 860,000 refugees. Serbia's economy and large swaths of its infrastructure were destroyed. Kosovo was put under UN administration. Author: Sonila Sand The clashes came as lawmakers prepared to debate a law to raise minimum public sector wages. The bill does not include an increase for some 50,000 registered veterans of Kosovo's 1998 to 1999 uprising against Serbian rule. More than 30,000 of the war veterans get €170 per month ($182) for their pensions. The International Monetary Fund (IMF) has warned that Kosovo, mired in poverty and corruption, cannot afford to extend higher benefits to them. More than 13,000 people, most of whom were ethnic Albanians, died during the war before Serbia was forced to pull its troops out of the country after a NATO bombing campaign. Kosovo, which unilaterally declared its independence from Serbia in 2008, has been recognized by the United States and much of the West, including Germany. It is not recognized as a sovereign state by Serbia or its allies Russia and China. rc/msh (AFP, Reuters)