At least four people were killed and 30 more were injured on Friday when a regional passenger train derailed in the southern German state of Bavaria. Authorities said 15 people were being treated for serious injuries in hospital. Around 140 passengers were on board at the time of the accident. A police spokesperson said a major operation to free people from the wreckage had been completed. "As far as we can tell, all the people have been rescued from the train," the spokesperson said, adding that removing the overturned wagons, however, would "certainly take a few days." Emergency services had to climb through the overturned train's windows using ladders in order to reach passengers trapped inside It was not immediately clear what caused the train traveling from the Alpine ski resort of Garmisch-Partenkirchen toward Munich to derail at about 12:20 local time (10:20 UTC). Images from the scene showed several carriages overturned, intertwined with tree branches and partly rolled down an embankment. Six rescue helicopters were in use to bring the injured to hospitals for treatment, according to a spokesperson for the ADAC Air Rescue service. Part of the route between Munich and Garmisch-Partenkirchen has been blocked off and traffic is being diverted. A police spokesperson said the train tracks and neighboring highway may have to remain closed into the weekend. Authorities expected the train tracks and neighboring highway to remain closed for several hours Prosecutors have launched an investigation into the cause of the incident. German Chancellor Olaf Scholz said he was shocked by the news and images of the accident. "Our sympathy is with the relatives, with the injured, to whom we wish a speedy recovery," he told broadcasters RTL and ntv. Interior Minister Nancy Faeser was expected to arrive at the crash site in the evening. Transport Minister Volker Wissing, who will visit the area on Saturday, said his ministry was in close contact with rail operator Deutsche Bahn and "providing support wherever we can." "My thoughts are with the relatives and injured," he said. "Our experts are already on site to work with the investigating authorities to determine the cause of the accident." The state premier of Bavaria, Markus Söder, expressed his deep shock and sorrow and thanked the rescue teams for their swift response. "We mourn with the families of the victims and wish all those injured a speedy recovery," he wrote on Twitter. Authorities say it's not yet clear what caused the train to come off the tracks The incident happened as Germany heads into the Pentecost long weekend and at the start of Bavaria's school holidays. It also came two days after the introduction of a €9 ($10) transport ticket allowing countrywide travel for one month, which has led to increased passenger numbers on regional trains. The Alpine town of Garmisch-Partenkirchen lies near the border with Austria and is a popular destination for hikers in summer. The region is set to host the G7 summit of world leaders later this month. sms,nm/rt (Reuters, dpa, AP, AFP)