Leaders of NATO countries and other allies are set to gather in Madrid on Tuesday, with the main topics of the discussion likely to be Russia's invasion of Ukraine and China's growing international ambitions. "It is extremely important that we are ready to continue to provide support because Ukraine now faces a brutality which we haven't seen in Europe since the Second World War," Secretary-General Jens Stoltenberg said ahead of the gathering. Members are expected to agree to stockpile weapons and equipment in Eastern Europe and the Baltic States, and to dramatically increase the number of troops based in those regions. There will also be more support for Ukraine to upgrade its military, which still uses mostly Soviet-era equipment. Speaking ahead of the summit on Tuesday, US National Security Advisor Jake Sullivan said that the US is planning to announce new, long-term military deployments of "sea and air of additional force posture commitments." "The forces will be focused on the Baltics, Balkans and NATO's eastern flank bordering Russia," he said. The alliance is also seeking to assist Kyiv without having a direct confrontation with Russia, which is one of the reasons why Ukraine is still not a part of the group despite being on a path to membership since 2008. Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy is scheduled to address the summit by video call. He has acknowledged that joining NATO in the near future is unlikely, and is instead focusing on seeking membership in the European Union. The leaders of Japan, Australia, South Korea and New Zealand have been invited as guests to the summit for the first time. All four have been supportive of Ukraine, but are also attending due to increased concerns about China's military presence in the Pacific. US President Joe Biden, who arrived for the summit Tuesday afternoon in Madrid, is expected to hold a trilateral meeting with the leaders of Japan and South Korea Wednesday. "The president tomorrow will have the opportunity to host a trilateral meeting with the president of Korea and the prime minister of Japan. This will be the first trilateral leaders level meeting that we've had in some time," said US National Security Adviser Sullivan Also on Tuesday, Turkish President Recep Tayyip Erdogan is due to meet with Swedish Prime Minister Magdalena Andersson and Finnish President Sauli Niinisto to discuss the stalled Swedish and Finnish bids to join the alliance. Erdogan is currently blocking both bids over accusations that the two Nordic countries are supporting the Kurdistan Workers' Party and the YPG, a Kurdish militia based in Syria. "We do not want empty words, we want results," Erdogan told reporters in Ankara ahead of his departure for Madrid. "If Sweden and Finland are to become NATO members, they have to take the security concerns of Turkey seriously," he added. Ankara, which has at times engaged in armed conflict with Kurdish independence movements, has classified both as terrorist groups. Sweden and Finland have disputed Erdogan's claims. After decades of demurring, both countries are seeking NATO membership over concerns about Russia's aggression. Erdogan is also set to meet on the sidelines with US President Joe Biden. Turkey is furious about US military installations in Greece and has also said that a planned delivers of F-16s from Washington has been delayed. wmr,es/fb (AP, dpa)