For years, experts and politicians have called for major changes in the transportation sector. While much of the motivation to foster public transport systems largely stemmed from a desire to curb climate change, the war in Ukraine has provided another reason: Using trains, trams and buses, rather than cars, Europeans would reduce their fuel consumption and thus the continent's dependence on Russian energy imports. Germany's lower house of parliament, the Bundestag, introduced a heavily discounted monthly transportation pass, letting people in Germany ride regional public transport for €9(about $9.65) per month in June, July and August. Lawmakers said they hope the pass will save people some money and encourage them to use public transport rather than drive cars. Last year, Germany's national railway company, Deutsche Bahn, recorded some 8 million passengers per day. With the coronavirus pandemic subsiding, passenger figures are expected to rise this year. Other European states, meanwhile, have already launched, or are planning to launch, similar measures to promote their public transport systems. Luxembourgprides itself in being the first country in the world to offer nationwide free public transport. Since March 1, no one needs to buy a ticket to use the country's public transport network. That applies to international commuters and foreign tourists as well, which comes as no surprise since some 45% of workers commute to Luxembourg from neighboring countries. Making public transport free for all is a big step for society, Transport Minister Francois Bausch said, adding that "the government wants Luxembourg to become a laboratory for mobility." It is hoped fewer people in Luxembourg will travel by car With a population that's grown by 40% in the past two decades, getting around in the small European nation, increases in public transit use would help avoid traffic on the Grand Duchy's roads. So far, no reliable passenger figures have been made available by Luxembourg's Transport Ministry. In any case, coronavirus-related lockdowns, introduced shortly after public transport was made free, will have likely suppressed passenger numbers. The country's various public buses, trains and trams are taxpayer-funded. It's probably the best deal in the history of German train travel: For June, July and August 2022 many train rides will cost only 9 euros ($9.50). The ticket is valid for Deutsche Bahn transport offerings such as RB trains, RE trains, U-Bahn, S-Bahn, bus and tram. Don't miss the Black Forest route crossing the Ravenna bridge (pictured) in southern Germany. Whether by boat, car, bike or train, a trip along the Rhine river is sure to be memorable. One of the most beautiful parts is the Upper Middle Rhine Valley, which connects Bingen, Rüdesheim und Koblenz. Dotted with castles and charming villages, this wine-growing area was declared a UNESCO World Heritage Site in 2002. Enjoy looking out the window during this 67 kilometer (41 mile) journey. Traveling along the Moselle river is another breathtaking train route in Germany. Start in the city of Koblenz where the Rhine and Moselle rivers meet, and pass numerous vineyards and castles, including picturesque villages like Cochem an der Mosel. Deutsche Bahn runs the Moselle line from Koblenz to Trier. The cheap price makes it more affordable to stop and taste local wines along the way. The train tracks running along Lake Constance in the country's south make for yet another spectacular train journey. The RE5 train, for example, starts in Stuttgart and ends in the Bavarian town of Lindau. Follow kilometers of wildflower fields and nature and take in views of the Alps before the final stop where you can get off an explore the old town on Lindau island. As in other German cities like Berlin, one can buy a monthly ticket for Munich's public transportation for only 9 euros in June, July and August. But there's much more — travel lovers can take the train all the way across the Alps to the beautiful Austrian city of Salzburg, a route on the Bavarian Meridian Line which will also be on offer with the new cheap ticket. For 90 days, it will be easier than ever to reach this popular Frisian island in the North Sea. Starting in the neighborhood of Altona in Hamburg, one can hop on the RE6 and go directly to this island known for its sand dunes, marshland nature preserves, and myriad outdoor activities. The journey takes just under 4 hours. Exploring Germany's Saxon Switzerland with its impressive sandstone rock formations is a breeze by train. A route takes you seamlessly along the Elbe River from Dresden to the town of Bad Schandau, where many hikers begin. One can also continue to Decin, a town in the Czech Republic which is a popular base to explore the Czech side of the park: Bohemian Switzerland. Train enthusiasts will love the chance to cross the world's biggest brick-built bridge, the Göltzsch Viaduct. This large structure can be crossed with regional train lines RB4 and RB2 through the Elster Valley from Gera to Cheb in the Czech Republic. Keep in mind when planning your trip that the offer does not apply to the following trains: ICE, IC, EC and Flixtrain. A truly magical location in Germany surrounded by the Alps, the resort area of Tegernsee Lake can also be accessed at the rock-bottom rate for 90 days in summer. Starting in Munich, one can take the Bavarian Overland Train ("Bayerische Oberlandbahn") to two towns on the impressive lake: Gmund at the northern end, and Tegernsee town, the final stop. No Berlin summer is complete without a trip north to the Baltic Sea coast. Thanks to the new cheap ticket, it should be easier than ever to visit charming towns, like Stralsund (pictured), with regional trains. Deutsche Bahn, however, warn that it may not be possible to bring your bike when trains are expected to be particularly crowded in August, so consider renting a bike at your destination. Author: Sarah Hucal Malta wants to make public transport free for all as of October 1. This would make it Europe's second country to scrap transport fees for citizens and visitors alike. Malta's government announced the step back in October 2021. One aim of the initiative is to disincentivize residents from using cars, Times of Malta journalist Bertrand Borg tells DW. Residents and tourists will soon be permitted to use Malta's public transport for free The program is also taxpayer-funded. No exact figures regarding expected costs have yet been published. Residents need to apply for a special ticket that entitles them to ride on buses and trains for free. Tourists may also register for the ticket. While entire countries like Luxembourg and Malta have or plan to make public transport free of charge, some towns and municipalities have also taken the leap. One of them is the Belgian city of Hasselt. It is well known among transport experts worldwide for its 1997 decision to make all buses and trains free to use. Riding trains and busses is no longer free in Hasselt City officials, however, reversed the decision in 2013, citing mounting costs. The people of Hasselt now have to buy public transport tickets again. Since 2013, all registered residents of the Estonian capital, Tallinn, may ride buses and trains in the city free of charge. The municipality went ahead with the move in part because ordinary people struggled to pay for travel passes when the financial crisis hit. Considerable tax money has, however, been needed to prop up the scheme. Two driverless busses waiting in Tallinn So far, the system has functioned without any major problems. Still, public transport remains a controversial topic in the country, says Estonian journalist Evelyn Kaldoja. "People complain there are too few connections." This, she says, means few chose it for their commute to work. Despite the scheme, the number of cars on Tallinn's streets has not declined, says the journalist. "Although public transport is free, people who used to drive a car still do." She thinks any drop in traffic may have resulted from a rise in gas prices. Many parts of Estonia have followed suit and also made public transport free. In the French city of Dunkirk, steps to provide free buses and trains did lead to less traffic. Since 2018, residents can travel on public transport for free. Fewer locals now travel by car in Dunkirk, France A study conducted a few months after the switch found that it had discouraged locals to drive their cars. Although two-thirds of respondents said they had depended on cars, over half said they were now regularly riding buses to get around. About 5% even said the availability of free buses helped convince them to sell their car or not buy a second vehicle. Certain Danish islands temporarily made public transport free purely for economic reasons. Lina Holm-Jacobsen, a spokesperson for Visit Denmark, told DW the scheme was devised by the Danish government to bolster the tourist industry after the coronavirus lockdown. In the summer of 2020 and 2021, catching a ferry to these islands was free for travelers without cars. Ticket costs were also significantly dropped during the summer season. The ferries, however, are not free of charge in 2022, but visitors still benefit from discounted public transport tickets. This article was originally written in German.