"Freedom comes to those who fight, but not to those who cry, coz the more you cry, the more your people continue to die, so rise and defend your rights!" With these lines from his song "Time Bomb," Bobi Wine opened a panel this week at the invitation of DW culture editors within the framework of the annual Global Media Forum. In his native Uganda, Wine could end up in prison for that statement. Since 2018, Robert Ssentamu Kyagulanyi — that is his real name — has been blacklisted as an "abolished artist" in Uganda. "I'm not supposed to stage a concert and neither is my music supposed to play on radio or TV," he said. Bobi Wine has been arrested time and again in Uganda Active in politics since 2017, Bobi Wine is a thorn in the side of Uganda's government. He opposes President Yoweri Museveni, who has ruled for the past 36 years. In 2021, Wine ran as a presidential candidate despite attempts at intimidation — he has been repeatedly arrested and tortured in recent years. He lost the election, and he and his family were placed under house arrest for months. The fact that he is still alive at all may be because the government wants to uphold the narrative, at least to the international community, that opposition is possible. But Wine does not want to leave his country, because that would "be betrayal — betrayal of myself and my people. And it would not make practical sense at the end of the day," he told DW. "The tyrants that rule some countries in Africa are empowered." Stella Gaitano, a writer from neighboring South Sudan, decided to go into exile. She, too, was persecuted and arrested several times for writing texts that denounce warmongering in her region. The Sudanese-born author participated in protests against former strongman and autocrat Omar al-Bashir, who was overthrown by the military in 2019. She is also involved in various NGOs that provide food donations as well as books to refugees and displaced people. Change needs education, she argued. "Dreaming about countries is not enough. We have to work and we have to build ourselves first — then we can build our countries." Gaitano prepared her children for the possibility that she might have to flee one day. "That made me strong and that made them strong," said the author, who has been living in the town of Kamen in the western German state of North Rhine-Westphalia since March 2022. She is a fellow of the PEN writers' association Writers-in-Exile program, but with her ex-husband in Sudan, her three sons are waiting for visas to join their mother. Ike Nnaebue from Nigeria wanted to leave his homeland more than 20 years ago to seek his fortune in Europe. He had already got as far as Mali when tales of the dangers of the journey made him change his mind. Today, Nnaebue is a celebrated Nigerian filmmaker. His documentary "No U-Turn" received special mention at the Berlin Film Festival this year. Nigerian filmmaker Ike Nnaebue "As artists, we have very big responsibility," he told DW. "Part of our work is holding a mirror to society and pointing society in the right direction." "The job for us as creatives from Africa, from West Africa and especially from Nigeria is to show what is possible, to show that people can dream from wherever they are," he said. He believes that this is a good time for filmmakers in Nigeria because people want to hear about "everyday heroes of everyday life ... stories that show the magic of the people." Angele Etoundi Essamba, a photographer from Cameroon, captures that magic, too. "I wanted to break all the stereotypes that surrounded the representation not only of Africa, but of African women," said Essamba, whose works are being added to the permanent collection of New York's Museum of Modern Art. Essamba is convinced that art can bring about change. In the last 20 years, he says, African art has become increasingly in demand, which has clearly also benefited the artists. "It's really a very good time for African artists," said Akinbode Akinbiyi, a British-Nigerian photographer, adding that "from the continent, things are really moving forward." Settled in Berlin, Akinbiyi regularly travels to Africa to give workshops. Be passionate about what you do — that is the advice he gives young students. Passion is something that none of the five guests gathered for the DW panel lacked. In the face of censorship, conflicts and a lack of financial resources, they are convinced that, thanks to art, social change is possible. "Art is a soft power," said Stella Gaitano. Born in Sudan in 1979, the author writes mainly about war, escape and displacement, but also about great expectations and hopes for her native country. In early 2022, she fled to Germany with the help of the PEN writers' association. Art is a living thing that needs space to be freely expressed, accepted and supported, Gaitano says. Angele Etoundi Essamba, who comes from the francophone part of Cameroon, left her home country at the age of 10. Today she lives in the Netherlands and is considered one of the most world's successful African photographers. She draws her inspiration from the her Cameroon heritage and regularly travels back and forth between the continents. According to his Twitter bio, Bobi Wine is "one Ghetto child who has something to say through music." And that's what Robert Ssentamu Kyagulanyi, which is his given name, does as a musician, but also as a an activist and politician. In 2021, he ran against long-term president Yoweri Museveni despite massive attempts at repression. He was ultimately defeated but is fighting on. The Nigerian director, screenwriter and producer is considered one of the leading representatives of new African film. His most recent works deal with issues such as migration and human trafficking. His acclaimed documentary "No U-Turn" examines why young Africans are still forced to risk their lives to reach Europe. Born in Oxford, Akinbode Akinbiyi has Nigerian roots and now lives in Berlin. He is one of the best-known African photographers and calls himself a "wanderer between cultures and worlds." For years, he has been using his camera to capture the hustle and bustle of life in African cities — just as he does in the German capital. Author: Annabelle Steffes-Halmer This article was originally written in German.