For most people, the climate crisis is no longer a future scenario. Floods, heat waves and wildfires have gripped our entire planet — and will become stronger in years to come. Countries in the Global South are particularly hard hit, even though their citizens have been emitting the least CO2. Mathias Mogge is CEO of German aid agency Welthungerhilfe It is high time that those most responsible — above all the G7 countries — cough up for the damages wrought by the climate crisis across the globe. But so far, the G7 presidency has not taken the ambitious steps needed to play a leadership role in stopping climate change and fighting its impacts. It would be an important signal for the global community if these leaders were to not only recognize their responsibility, but also actually raise their ambitions for greater climate justice. This year is an important one for the climate. The international community has promised to update its national climate plans and adapt them to meet the 1.5 degrees Celsius (2.7 degrees Fahrenheit) target ahead of the UN climate conference in Egypt in November. For this to happen, the G7 should set a good example for other countries. Yet so far, none of the G7 nations has laid out plans compatible with the 1.5 degree target. Under the German G7 presidency, environment and energy ministers have agreed to kick fossil fuels out of their countries' electricity grids by 2035. But they have not yet agreed on a concrete exit date for coal, which is extremely damaging to the climate. It is now up to German Chancellor Olaf Scholz to make the global energy transition a top priority at the summit, and push for the G7 leaders to announce an exit from coal by 2030 in their final declaration. G7 ministers for climate, energy and environment met in Berlin in May Drastic reduction of carbon emissions is only one pillar in the fight against climate change. Many of its consequences can no longer be stopped. There is an urgent need for adaptation measures so people both in cities and in rural areas have the chance to cope with the effects of climate change. That's why several years ago rich nations committed to support low-income countries with $100 billion (€95 billion) annually from 2020 — to help them cut emissions and adapt to climate change. It was a central promise for more climate justice that has not been kept so far. Ahead of the summit, G7 development ministers made another promise to live up to this commitment. But they failed to underline this with concrete financial pledges. That said, the G7 ministers did recognize in their joint declaration that in addition to the money required for fighting climate change and adapting to its effects, there is also a need for fair financial compensation for the irreparable losses and damages already caused by the climate crisis. Measured by their commitments, the G7 countries are on the right track to adopting a leading role in climate protection. But climate justice must be more than a promise. The G7 countries, who are among those most responsible for the climate crisis, also have a responsibility to the people suffering most from its impacts. At the summit at Schloss Elmau, Germany, they have a chance to show they are ready to take on their international responsibility. Mathias Mogge is the secretary-general of Welthungerhilfe, the largest private German aid agency, which campaigns worldwide for sustainable food security and against hunger. As an agricultural engineer and environmental scientist, Mogge has worked for years in international development, mainly in African countries. In addition, he is the co-chair of the association VENRO, a collection of NGOs working for sustainable development. This aspect is so important, as any real estate agent will tell you, it's worth repeating. Schloss Elmau definitely fulfills these three criteria. The castle is located in Germany near the Austrian border — about 100 kilometers (62 miles) south of Munich in one of the most beautiful regions of the Alps. Its remote placement makes it perfect for those seeking peace and quiet — and heads of state. Even when the sun isn't shining, the landscape is radiant. Everywhere on the spacious grounds, guests can find sunbeds and umbrellas, where they can enjoy the landscape in peace. The main house is aptly named The Hideaway, for its retreat-like quality. But there are also plenty of hiding places on the grounds. The name The Hideaway also fits well because, according to the hotel, only about 35% of the space can be rented, which is rare for such a large hotel. The majority of the space is public space, which is why Schloss Elmau never seems overcrowded. This lounge (pictured) is one of the public areas, and there is also a library, bookstore, clothing store and more. Schloss Elmau also has a concert hall where musicians perform more than 200 concerts a year, which the hotel says makes it one of the largest concert organizers in Germany. One unique aspect is that the musicians who perform here do not receive payment, but can stay in the castle for free. This is what the hotel calls "play to stay." Guests, then, can also enjoy the concerts for free. This picture went viral during the last G7 summit at Schloss Elmau in 2015. It shows then-US President Barack Obama sitting on a bench while former German Chancellor Angela Merkel seems to be explaining the ways of the world to him — or perhaps showing him how big the bench is. These days, the bench in front of the hotel has become a popular photo spot. One thing that's not in short supply at Schloss Elmau is an elephant motif, which can be found on fabrics, coasters and more. Castle owner Dietmar Müller-Elmau discovered an Indian fabric with an elephant motif in the corner of a store and was enamored by it. Having lived in India, he knew the elephant was a symbol of good judgment and memory and set out to incorporate it into the hotel's design. With a total of nine restaurants, Schloss Elmau has something for every taste. The crown jewel is the Michelin-starred Luce d'Oro with chef Christoph Rainer. It features meals of up to 12 courses, and every attention to detail is paid. Each table even has a smaller table nearby, just for handbags. Even if this domed room of the Oriental Hammam looks spartan, the entire spa area of the bathhouse is far from it. This is the main room of the 500-meter (5,400 sq ft) spa, with its four treatment rooms, three-domed rooms, two steam baths, an Oriental Tea Lounge and massage treatment options. After all, G7 conversations are sure to prompt a need for some world leaders to take a breather. In 2015, Schloss Elmau launched its G7 optimized hotel within a hotel, called The Retreat. Located 100 meters (about 300 feet) away from The Hideaway, it's approximately half its size with 47 suites, and offers the chance for world leaders to be among themselves. At the G7, each head of state and government gets a handful of rooms for themselves and their aides. The rest stay at The Hideaway. With impressive views of the Wetterstein mountains and valley from windows on three sides of each bedroom in The Retreat, watching TV is hardly necessary — although the rooms still have one. Each of the Summit Suites also has a living room, a hallway with storage and a smaller room. Although the hotel has plenty of unique features, its location in nature is truly one of a kind. Author: Marco Müller This commentary was originally published in German