Scientists talk about a supermoon when the moon is closest to the Earth on its orbit and appears as a full moon. The moon looks much bigger and brighter — perhaps because it appears closer to features on the horizon like mountains or trees. Full moons happen when the side of the moon that faces Earth is fully lit by the sun. And a supermoon is first-and-foremost a full moon. So, some people refer to full supermoons. The opposite of a supermoon occurs when a full moon is at its farthest point from Earth. Then it’s called a micromoon. Strawberry supermoons often happen around the end of June and they have more to do with harvests than the moon's color. See the supermoon with your own eyes Historically, in North America, the name referred to the time when strawberries ripen. In Europe, the same supermoon is called a Mead or Honey Moon, because it's around the time to harvest honey. Mead is a drink made with honey and spices. Strawberry supermoons are also known as Rose Moons in Europe because they happen around the time that roses bloom. Supermoons appear to be between 14 and 17% bigger and 30% brighter than micromoons and can be seen by the human eye — especially if the sky is cloud-free. A small telescope or binoculars should reveal the detail on the moon’s surface. The best times to see it are at moonrise, just after sunset, and moonset, just before sunrise. That's when supermoons appear to dwarf other things that you can see on the ground. While full moons happen once every lunar cycle — once every 29.5 days — supermoons only usually happen between three and four times a year. The giant moons are visible for about three days. And if you're very lucky, you may witness an even rarer super blood moon. That's when a lunar eclipse occurs on the same night as a supermoon. Edited by: Pippa Stephens Monday's "Supermoon," at a distance of 356,509 kilometers (221,524 miles), is the closest one to Earth since 1948. The US space agency, NASA, described the spectacular event, captured here by Fabian Schmidt in Bonn, Germany, as "an extra-supermoon." Chronic pollution and cloud cover spoiled the fun for many planetary enthusiasts and photographers who flocked to the best viewing spots around the globe. But for Jörg A. Reichel in Teltow, Germany, neither was a problem. The moon is at its brightest this week as it heads closer to Earth along its elliptical orbit. This phenomenon will also bring unusually high tides, followed by plunging low tides the morning after. Ralf Bayer took this picture in Friedberg, Germany. Supermoons are quite common, Pascal Descamps of the Paris Observatory told the Agence France-Presse news agency. There is one every 14 months on average. "But some supermoons are more super than others," says Descamps. And, we couldn't agree more, as photographer Hermann Büchen shows with this snap in the German capital, Berlin. Skywatchers will have to wait until 2034 for the moon to come even closer to Earth. That, too, will be a supermoon. Hopefully it will be as spectacular, if not more so, than Monday's skyshow seen here in Bad Wimpfen. Cloud blanketed much of Europe, making it hard to view the "Supermoon." For photographer Michael Niessen in southern France the moon was not visible on Monday. Luckily Michael took this shot the night before. Stunning. Author: Jessie Wingard