The Bachfest in Leipzig's St. Thomas Church kicked off on Thursday with a multifaceted program. Making his debut at the Bach Festival, Andreas Reize conducted the opening concert with the Thomaner boys' choir and the Gewandhaus Orchestra. Reize is the new Thomaskantor, or choir leader. The program included works by Johann Sebastian Bach and his son, Carl Philipp Emanuel. In the evening, the Gewandhaus Youth Choir together with the Youth Symphony Orchestra of Ukraine performed works by Bach and the moving Suite on Ukrainian Themes Op. 2, by Ukrainian composer Mykola Lysenko. The Youth Symphonic Orchestra of Ukraine performing with the Gewandhaus Youth Choir The concert was streamed and is also available on demand on the YouTube channel "DW Classical Music." "It is a pleasure for us, as the international media partner of the Bachfest, to carry the music and the message of Johann Sebastian Bach out into the world," said DW Culture and Lifestyle Director Rolf Rische, referring to Deutsche Welle's new media partnership with the Bach Festival. "Bach is an international brand that not only attracts visitors from all over the world, but also fascinates DW readers and viewers on all continents." This year, visitors from over 50 countries are expected to attend the Bachfest's program of 150 events, held from June 9-19. The new Thomaskantor, Andreas Reize The motto of this year's festival, "Bach — We are Family," refers to the works by Bach and his large family of musicians, as well as today's international Bach community; this year's event brings together 20 Bach choirs from around the world to Leipzig. At the opening night, Mayor of Leipzig Burkhard Jung pointed out that family is at the core of our existence and stands for home and security: "We see the Bach Festival as a sign of peace in times of conflict," he said, referring to the Russian war in Ukraine. The theme of the opening concert with the Thomaner choir was the Passion of Christ, starting with Johann Sebastian Bach's festive Toccata and Fugue in D minor played by the new St. Thomas Church organist, Johannes Lang. With mighty drums and trumpets, the Leipzig Gewandhaus Orchestra then performed Carl Philipp Emanuel Bach's Easter music piece, "Gott hat den Herr erwecket." "It's a great, very fast opening chorus that really gets down to business," Thomaskantor Andreas Reize told DW. The Thomaner choir was up to the evening's challenges. The legendary Ascension Oratorio by Johann Sebastian Bach, "Lobet Gott in seine Reichen," made the singers' voices shine. For cantor Reize, it is important to bring out their soft and bright sound: "A boy's voice naturally has many overtones, which we try to encourage," he said. At the guest concert by the Youth Symphony Orchestra of Ukraine (YSOU), which was founded in 2016 by the renowned Ukrainian conductor Oksana Lyniv, Bach Festival Director Michael Maul emphasized that Bach's music not only inspires enthusiasm but also provides comfort, support and reassurance. "You all are now part of our big Bach family," Maul said, welcoming the young musicians who performed together with the singers of the Amarcord ensemble and the Gewandhaus Youth Choir. The Youth Symphonic Orchestra of Ukraine performing with the Gewandhaus Youth Choir The 40 YSOU musicians are being hosted by families in Leipzig. "We've heard tragic stories that are barely imaginable," Maul told journalists. The orchestra's last bus from Lviv left during a missile alert. The concert was entitled "Verleih uns Frieden" (Grant us peace), after a song of the same name by church reformer Martin Luther. It was performed twice in the YSOU concert, once in the version by Johann Sebastian Bach and then in an arrangement by Felix Mendelssohn Bartholdy. The title speaks for itself, as does Johann Sebastian Bach's cantata "Ich hatte viel Bekümmernis" (I had much grief). The latter is about great sadness and pain that turns into confidence and consolation. "That's something we wish Ukraine: comfort and confidence and maybe joy again," Maul said. The Ukrainian orchestra seemed truly at home while performing Mykola Lysenko's Suite on Ukrainian Themes Op.2, which was greeted with frenetic applause. The piece, originally intended for piano, was written by Lysenko while he was studying music in Leipzig in the 1860s. The Bach Archive found a version for strings by an Australian music librarian named Glynn Davies and commissioned him to write an arrangement with winds and strings for the Ukrainian orchestra. A Ukrainian piece, composed in Leipzig and arranged by an Australian: In festival director Maul's eyes, this project also stands for the global approach of "Bach — We are Family." "We have a good working relationship with the Ukrainian youth orchestra," DW's Rische said. In 2017, the then newly founded orchestra was at the center of Deutsche Welle's Campus Project. "It is an important task for us, as the voice of the free world, to report on the activities of this orchestra in particular," Rische added. DW's Rolf Rische and Bachfest director Michael Maul The soloists and conductors from the two concerts must have been surprised when they were given rolled-up certificates at the end of their performance instead of the traditional bouquets of flowers. The Leipzig Bachfest, with its international guests, involves a lot of air travel, but the organizers are nevertheless trying to minimize the event's CO2 footprint. One of their projects involves collecting donations to plant a "Bach forest." So instead of offering bouquets of flowers to the musicians, the certificate that is handed out contains seeds to plant new flowers, Maul explained: "This way, everyone's own bouquet of flowers will grow and we are doing something for nature."  Leipzig, home to the Gewandhaus concert hall and orchestra, as well as the famous Thomaner boys' choir, is a city of music. Johann Sebastian Bach lived and worked here from 1723 until 1750. The city even has a well-known opera house. Lonely Planet had many reasons to rank Leipzig No. 1 in German travel destinations, from music to alternative culture. Leipzig rocks! Leipzig is booming, drawing young people in particular. They are a major element of the lively, creative charm of the city. For instance, on the Karl-Liebknecht-Strasse, known locally as KarLi, you can find a mix of bars, unusual shops and some adventurous lofts in former factory buildings. Lonely Planet writes: "The city is young, exciting, multifaceted and full of vibrance." A must-see attraction is the Plagwitz district with its Karl-Heine-Strasse. Here, the city's work-in-progress charm is evident — new pubs have opened next to former factories, and cheap studios and offices attract artists and startups, while graffiti adorns the buildings that have not yet been developed. Many art, cultural and street events take place here, like the "Westpaket" flea market. Leipzig has many restaurants and cafes — which have reopened in compliance with strict COVID-19 rules — where you can enjoy the atmosphere of the old town. The club scene has also seen a revival. At the legendary Distillery Club, for example, cocktails can be enjoyed in the outdoor seating area while a DJ spins tunes. Dancing, however, remains strictly forbidden. The many vacant areas in the city leave room for new ideas to develop, with former industrial buildings being used for parties and events. But there are many buildings that remain empty and are not in use — exploring them can be a fascinating activity in itself. A renowned example of innovative development is the conversion of a former cotton mill factory building, the Spinnerei. With studios, galleries and exhibitions, this is the epicenter of Leipzig's art scene. The Eigen + Art gallery, based in this compound, created the New Leipzig School — a modern art movement — known internationally, with Neo Rauch as its most famous representative. Leipzig is a city popular with students. Leipzig University was founded in 1409, making it the second-oldest in Germany. Famous poets like Gotthold Ephraim Lessing and Johann Wolfgang von Goethe studied here. The centrally located main building of the university, with its church — which got a new look in 2012 — brings student life into the heart of the city. In Leipzig, everything can be reached by bicycle — including the many man-made lakes surrounding the city. A popular gathering place is Cospudener See, a lake which is also known locally as "Cossi." It was created when a deep opencast mine was flooded. Its shores host Saxony's longest sandy beach, which is a well-known nudist zone. Leipzig's inner city has ample green space, including Lene Voigt Park (pictured) and Clara Zetkin Park. Both get a lot of use when the weather is good, especially during the summer months. Many young people spend their time here playing volleyball, barbecuing or simply lounging in a hammock. Every year on Pentecost, an extraordinary spectacle happens in Leipzig's parks. Thousands of people dressed in black flock to the Wave Gothic Festival — the biggest of its kind in the world. For three days, "goths" put themselves on show while also attending concerts and parties. But not all of them wear just black — outfits include opulent Victorian dresses, wigs and artistic headwear. Author: Elisabeth Yorck von Wartenburg This text was originally written in German.