With its massive size, unusual scales and fearsome crocodile-like skull, the Spinosaurus has long been a dinosaur fan favorite — its appearance is so distinct that it was portrayed as even larger and more powerful than the ferocious Tyrannosaurus rex in the movie Jurassic Park III. However, despite its popularity, scientists know little about the Spinosaurus. Its fossils have proven nearly impossible to find. To date, archaeologists have only uncovered seven such fossils — the most complete set was found in eastern Morocco. So, researchers are ecstatic that new remains of the mighty dinosaur have been dug up on the southwest coast of the Isle of Wight, off the south coast of England. In a study published in the journal PeerJ Life & Environment, the researchers say the fossils are around 125 million years old. "It was a huge animal, more than 10 meters long, and judging by the dimensions, quite possibly the largest hunting dinosaur ever discovered in Europe," said the team's lead author, Chris Baker, of the University of Southampton. The researchers say the discovery supports a hypothesis that the Spinosaurus originally came from western Europe, where it split into several species before migrating further. Groups of related Spinosauri have also been found in southern England, Brazil, Niger, Thailand and Laos. The first Spinosaurus skeleton was discovered in 1912 in the Egyptian Bahariyya oasis by Austrian paleontologist Richard Markgraf. It was categorized as Spinosaurus aegyptiacus in 1915 by German paleontologist Ernst Stromer von Reichenbach. Unfortunately, some of the fossils were severely damaged when they were transported from Egypt to the Deutsches Museum in Munich, and the remaining bones were lost in a 1944 air raid on the Alte Akademie museum in Dusseldorf. On land, spinosaurus may have walked on two legs Since there are few other surviving specimens, scientists can only estimate the size and weight of an adult Spinosaurus. Spinosaurus was possibly between 15 and 18 meters (49-59 ft) long and weighed between six and nine tons. Its skull alone possibly measured around 1.75 meters, making it one of the longest of any carnivorous dinosaur. Some features, such as its paddle-like webbed feet and a fin-like tail, suggest that the Spinosaurus hunted fish in shallow water. On land, the Spinosaurus may have walked on two legs. With its long neck and trunk, the dinosaur probably had a very forward-leaning center of gravity. The fossils found on the Isle of Wight — which include pelvic bones and vertebrae — show that after death, a number of scavengers probably attacked the two-legged Spinosaurus. The researchers now want to examine thin layers of the fossils under a microscope to precisely calculate the age and other information about the dinosaur's growth. Edited by: Zulfikar Abbany Paleontologists unearthed this huge fossil in the East Midlands, England. It is the biggest and best preserved fossil of an ichthyosaur ever found in Britain. In February 2021, the Anglian Water utility planned to landscape the banks of the reservoir in the Rutland Water Nature Reserve. Water was drained, and a spit of land emerged. While taking a closer look at the drained lagoon with a colleague, conservation team leader Joe Davis came across round objects sticking out of the mud. His colleague thought they were just old clay pipes, but Davis had a hunch. Dean Lomax, a paleontologist and passionate ichthyosaur expert (third from right) and his team began to dig. Piece by piece, they uncovered one bone after another in the course of August, eventually uncovering the spectacular specimen. It soon become clear that the fossil was an ichthyosaur. A number of skeletons of these marine animals have been found in Britain. The first was found in 1811 by 12-year-old Mary Anning and her brother. The Rutland specimen is particularly well preserved. The paleontologists continued their painstaking excavation. The photo shows the tail end of the animal, amazingly well preserved for its age. Ichthyosaurs lived about 90 to 250 million years ago. Paleontologists estimate the age of this specimen at about 180 million years. The true extent of this ichthyosaur emerged bit by bit. The body of the marine animal is about 10 meters long, about the length of a blue whale. Other marine animals probably had great respect for the ichthyosaur. The massive skull of the fossil alone weighs about a ton. The specimen may look like a flattened saltwater crocodile but the predator was likely much more elegant when it was roaming the seas. The creature may seem to be smiling in the above image, but ichthyosaurs were predators. Adult animals preyed on vertebrates including turtles and birds, and probably also on smaller ichthyosaurs. Smaller ichthyosaurs also ate shellfish, which paleontologists learned from analyzing the stomach contents of fossils. Author: Fabian Schmidt