When Russia invaded Ukraine on February 24, 2022, it was the first large-scale war of aggression in Europe since World War II. Unimaginable to many, the war also brought unexpected impacts, which have reverberated across the globe. Here are five ways the war has changed the world. Since the Russian invasion, some 6.8 million Ukrainians have fled their country, along with at least an additional 7.7 million internally displaced. After initially fleeing to neighboring countries, at least 3 million continued their journey, according to the UNHCR. Apart from Poland, Germany and the Czech Republic currently host the largest number of Ukrainian refugees, with circa 727,000 and 348,000 respectively. Close to 2 million Ukrainians have returned to their country since they first fled the war — although some of this could be back-and-forth movement, the UNHCR notes. The influx of Ukrainian refugees into the European Union has both galvanized support for them, as well as strained intake systems. Refugees who have settled in a new country are typically reliant on the social safety net of that country, at least for some time. Olexandra fled Kyiv on March 23. Today, she lives in Bergisch Gladbach, a city in western Germany. "I want to go home, but it's not yet possible," she tells DW. "Sometimes, I want to drop everything and return to Kyiv, even though bombs are falling on the city." She says it is tough living in a foreign country. But "we must save as many lives as possible so we can rebuild Ukraine." "I made my decision to leave on March 15; a nearby subway station was hit, leaving my walls shaking, which woke me up," recalls Olexandra. "On March 23, I boarded a train to stay with a friend in Lviv, but three days later, the city was also bombed, forcing us to shelter in the cellar." She remembers thinking: "God, please let me survive to see another day." Soon after, Olexandra fled to Germany. Olexandra spent the first days of the war hiding in a car park. She remembers how "on the third day, we started running out of food, at some stage I grew so weak I could not even tie my hair." The shelter, she says, "had a toilet and washbasin we could use to clean dishes; but we did not have shower." Olena fled the Kyiv region with her children on March 10. She now lives in Cologne, western Germany. "I'm from the Donetsk area, Avdiivka is my hometown," the woman tells DW. "Back in 2014 and 2015, we were under attack for eight months. And then came February 24, 2022. My God, I did not think war would break out again, I was shocked." Olena spent the first two weeks of the war near Kyiv. "There were no Russian soldiers in the village itself, but they were in nearby Bucha, Makariv and Borodyanka — these places took heavy fire," she recalls. "I decided to pack my things and flee; staying would have meant putting my own life and safety, and that of my kids, at risk." Olena feels fortunate to be in Germany. "I have never been here before, but it was the only country I ever wanted to go to; I got help finding an apartment, I feel well and safe." She says she wants to stay in Germany. "My children are attending school, learning German; I’m learning the language as well," she tells DW. "Twice, we had to flee a war zone; I want my children to grow up in peace." Tatiana left Kharkiv on March 5. She is now based in Bonn, western Germany. She and her daughter endured three weeks of Russian shelling before fleeing. "My 10-year-old daughter was frightened, crying constantly, asking 'Mom, am I going to die now?' It was scary fleeing the country, but I could no longer bear seeing my daughter in this fearful state." Tatiana remembers their escape from Kharkiv: "After five days, we reached Lviv. From there we traveled onwards to Poland; the border guards were friendly, telling us over and over we had reached safety." They helped them carry their bags, as she recalls, and handed out toys to refugee children. "They gave us hot meals and everything we needed." Tatiana is grateful for the help she has received from Germany and other European states. "I'm in safety, but my heart is in Kharkiv, with my family and friends," she tells DW. "Every evening I read the news about bombings, people killed and wounded, and each morning I call my family and friends, hoping they are okay." Inna is from Odesa. She and her friend Xenia fled Ukraine to stay with friends in Germany, who offered to put them up. The women's children are able to keep studying because their Ukrainian schools offer remote classes. The mothers are thankful for all the support they have received. Inna and Xenia say they face an uncertain future. "We don't know what will come next," one of them tells DW. Adding that "we know that our country will have to be rebuilt, and it's clear there will be no jobs because the economy has taken a hit. Every Ukrainian knows that. The worst thing is that nobody knows how long all this will take, and what we are supposed to do." Inna (pictured) wants to return to Odesa. Xenia does, too. She says they are merely guests in Germany. "My husband does not want me returning," Xenia tells DW. "Several times, I have been very close to heading back, despite the fighting." She says she never wanted to leave her city. "I would feel totally different with my husband by my side, he is in Odesa patrolling the streets." Author: Darina Meletina Ukraine is an important breadbasket, producing around half of the world's sunflower oil. According to the USDA, Ukraine accounts for 15% of global trade in corn and 10% of of global wheat trade. The conflict has cut off such exports, with Russia continuing to blockade grain at Ukraine's Black Sea ports. This stranglehold has especially been felt in countries dependent on imports of Ukrainian grains and cooking oil, such as Egypt and India respectively. Yet the ripple effects go far wider. Some warn that the conflict, along with extreme weather due to climate change and pandemic-induced economic shock, is fueling a global food crisis. In May, the UN Security Council warned that hunger levels around the world have reached "a new high," adding that tens of millions could face long-term famine due to the war. As of May, some 23 countries have imposed export restrictions on food — an indication of waning food security. Russia is the largest exporter of natural gas worldwide, the second-largest supplier of crude oil, and the third-largest coal exporter. Up until the war, three-quarters of its gas and nearly half of its crude oil had been going to Europe. In 2020, Russian oil, gas and coal accounted for a quarter of the EU's energy consumption. But after Russia invaded Ukraine, the EU sought to end its reliance on Russian energy. "We simply cannot rely on a supplier who explicitly threatens us," European Commission President Ursula von der Leyen said in March. Already in March, the Commission outlined intentions to wean the EU completely off Russian fossil fuels by 2030, as well as plans to drastically cut use of Russian gas two-thirds by the end of this year. Maximizing gas storage is one point in that plan. Import of liquid natural gas, for example from the US, is another stopgap option. Meanwhile, some experts are predicting gas shortages and potentially rationing. With some European countries like Germany highly dependent on Russian gas, turning down the tap is proving to be painful Many see the conflict as an opportunity for the EU to not only free itself from dependency on Russian energy, but also fulfill the bloc's commitment to climate protection by building out renewable energies and ramping up energy efficiency. Yet there are limits to how quickly this can be done. And soaring demand for non-Russian sources of energy has seen prices shoot up across the board. Shortages of both food and energy have played into a huge change in the lives of many since the Ukraine war started: Prices went up. A UN food security expert warned in May that the world has only a 10-week supply of wheat left When there is less of something, its value increases — and when food and fuel get more expensive, so does everything else. Prices for food in particular are soaring. The UN Food and Agriculture Organization's (FAO) food price index, which measures monthly change in prices for a basket of food commodities, reached an all-time high in March of this year. Inflation — that is, less buying power as prices go up — is a key measure that affects all aspects of the economy. Inflation more than doubled worldwide in the year since March 2021, according to the International Labour Organisation. In the eurozone, inflation reached 8.1% last month — a record high. Yet inflation is predicted to hit lower-income countries even harder. While a recent outlook by the IMF projected inflation of 5.7% for industrialized countries, that figure for developing countries is 8.7%. As if increased costs were not bad enough, experts are predicting that prices could remain high for years to come. Prices for food have been soaring around the world, sparking protest like this one in Sri Lanka Russia's invasion of Ukraine has left its mark on geopolitics as well. Some experts expect a renewed split into East and West geopolitical and economic blocs, with Russia and China on one side and the EU and US leading the other. The North American Treaty Organization, also known as NATO, was founded after World War II in 1949 and brings together the US, Canada and 10 European countries. A child of the Cold War, it became something of an umbrella for democracy and free markets in Europe, with a major expansion to the east in 2004. Key to NATO is Article 5, which spells out a principle of collective defense: If any member is attacked, this shall be considered an attack on all, with military retaliation to be meted out by each member. While NATO's profile receded to the point that French President Emmanuel Macron in 2019 called it brain dead, the war in Ukraine is making the world's most powerful military alliance now take center stage, some observers say. Due largely to fears over Putin's imperialist project for Russia, Finland and Sweden recently announced their intention to join the alliance, breaking nearly 70 years of neutrality. Vladimir Putin sees NATO as a threat to Russia and has repeatedly warned of consequences, should the alliance allow Ukraine to join. Critics of the alliance say its eastern expansion amounted to a provocation. NATO has been supplying Ukraine with weapons and equipment, although it has denied a request by Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy to impose a no-fly zone over the country. For now, NATO continues its delicate dance of remaining steadfast but treading lightly so that it will not trigger World War III. German consumers are feeling the pinch of the rising cost of living. The consequences of the war in Ukraine and the sanctions against Russia have not gone unnoticed. In March, Germany's inflation rate hit its highest level since 1981. The German government is keen to press ahead quickly with an embargo on Russian coal, but it is still wrangling over whether to ban imports of Russian gas and oil. Cars wait in line at gas stations in Nairobi. Here, too, people are noticing the effects of the war in Ukraine. Fuel is expensive, and in short supply - not to mention the food crisis. At the UN Security Council, Kenya's UN ambassador Martin Kimani expressed concern, comparing the situation in eastern Ukraine to the changes that took place in Africa after the end of the colonial era. Russia is the world's largest producer of wheat. Because of the ban on Russian exports, the price of bread is now rising in many places – including here, in Turkey. International sanctions are disrupting supply chains. Ukraine, too, is one of the five biggest exporters of wheat in the world, but the war with Russia means it can't ship supplies from its ports on the Black Sea. A worker piles up sacks of flour at the Jamila market, a popular wholesale market in Baghdad. Wheat prices have skyrocketed in Iraq since Russia invaded Ukraine, as the two countries account for at least 30% of the world's wheat trade. Iraq has remained neutral so far, but pro-Putin posters have now been banned in the country. Demonstrators have clashed with police in the Peruvian capital Lima. They are protesting against the rise in food prices, among other things. The crisis has been exacerbated by the war in Ukraine. Peruvian President Pedro Castillo temporarily imposed a curfew and a state of emergency, but when these were lifted, the protests resumed. In Sri Lanka, too, people have taken to the streets to express their anger. A few days ago, some even tried to storm the private residence of President Gotabaya Rajapaksa. Mounting protests against the rising cost of living, fuel shortages, and power cuts prompted the president to declare a national state of emergency, and to ask India and China for help procuring the resources his country needs. There have been protests against rising food and energy prices in Scotland, too. All over the UK, trade unions have been organizing demonstrations to protest the rising cost of living. Brexit had already resulted in price increases in many areas of life, and the war in Ukraine will only make things worse. The British have reason to worry about their beloved national dish. Around 380 million portions of fish and chips are eaten in the UK every year. But the tough sanctions now mean that prices for white fish from Russia, cooking oil, and energy are all rising. In February 2022, the UK inflation rate was 6.2% year-on-year. A trader in Ibafo, Nigeria, packages flour for resale. Nigeria has long wanted to reduce its reliance on imported food, and to make its economy more resilient in other areas as well. Could the war in Ukraine provide opportunities for Nigeria? Aliko Dangot, Nigeria's richest man, recently opened the country's largest fertilizer plant, and is hoping he will have plenty of buyers. Edited by: Andreas Illmer