Actor Will Smith apologized on social media Monday for slapping comedian Chris Rock during the Academy Awards ceremony the night prior. In an Instagram post, Smith said his behavior at "last night's Academy Awards was unacceptable and inexcusable." "Violence in all of its forms is poisonous and destructive," Smith said in his statement. "I would like to publicly apologize to you, Chris. I was out of line and I was wrong," the actor continued. "I am embarrassed and my actions were not indicative of the man I want to be. There is no place for violence in a world of love and kindness.'' Smith got on to the stage and slapped Rock across the face after the comedian made a joke about the appearance of Smith's wife. Rock — who was appearing as a presenter— joked about Jada Pinkett Smith, as he referenced the 1997 film "G.I. Jane" in which actress Demi Moore had shaved her head. Smith's wife, whose head is shaved, has in the past spoken about her alopecia diagnosis — a disease that leads to hair loss. “Jada, I love you. 'G.I. Jane 2,' can't wait to see it,'' Rock said, before being struck by Will Smith. Less than an hour after the incident, Smith won the Oscar for best actor for his role as Richard Williams, father of tennis stars Venus and Serena, in "King Richard." The 94th Academy Awards named the feel-good "CODA" as this year's best picture on Sunday, marking the first time that Hollywood's top award has gone to a streaming service. Sian Heder's deaf family drama found a backer in Apple TV+, which scored its first best picture Oscar less than three years after the streaming service was launched. Dune, starring Timothee Chalamet (right) and Zendaya, led this year's Oscar tally, picking up six of the 10 awards it was nominated for. Hans Zimmer won his second career Oscar for original score for Denis Villeneuve's film. Dune also won the awards for best cinematography, sound, film editing and production design. Jessica Chastain won the Academy Award for best actress for her role in "The Eyes Of Tammy Faye." The award was presented by Anthony Hopkins, who was notably absent at last year's ceremony to collect his best actor Oscar. Will Smith won his first Academy Award for his portrayal of Richard Williams, the father who raised tennis stars Venus and Serena Williams, in "King Richard." He had been nominated twice before, first for "Ali" in 2001 and then for the 2006 movie "The Pursuit of Happyness." Smith's win came shortly after a shocking onstage incident, as he slapped presenter Chris Rock over a joke referencing the hairstyle of Smith's wife, Jada Pinkett Smith. After what appeared to be a scripted confrontation, the mood turned somber when Smith returned to his seat and shouted back: "Keep my wife's name out of your f***ing mouth." Pinkett Smith has been diagnosed with alopecia. Troy Kotsur made history as the first deaf male actor to win an Oscar. He won the best supporting honors for his role in best picture winner "CODA," a title which stands for "child of deaf adult." Accepting the award, Kotsur signed: "I just wanted to say this is dedicated to the deaf community, the CODA community and the disabled community. This is our moment." Ariana DeBose also made history with her award for best actress in a supporting role, becoming the first Afro-Latina and openly LGBTQ actor to win in the category. In her acceptance speech, she said, "To anybody who has ever questioned your identity, I promise you there is a place for us" — echoing one of the songs from her film, the musical "West Side Story." Disney's "Encanto" picked up the Oscar for the best animated feature film. Hailed for its magical realism and music, the film won over a range of diverse works — including Afghan refugee documentary "Flee," Pixar's coming-of-age tale "Luca" set in Italy, the family comedy "The Mitchells vs. the Machines" and Disney's own "Raya and the Last Dragon." Japan’s emotional epic "Drive My Car" won the Oscar for the best international feature film. Directed by Ryusuke Hamaguchi, the film became the fifth from Japan to win the Oscar, the last being "Departures" in 2008. Other nominees included Italy's "The Hand of God," Denmark's "Flee," Bhutan's "Lunana: A Yak in the Classroom" and Norway's "The Worst Person in the World." The ceremony held a minute of silence for Ukraine. Among those showing gestures of support for Ukraine were Oscar-winning actress Youn Yuh-jung, nominated songwriter Diane Warren, composer Nicholas Britell and the actress Jamie Lee Curtis. They wore blue ribbons that read #WithRefugees to show support for those who have fled Ukraine since Russia invaded on February 24. Author: Seerat Chabba Earlier in the day, the 9,900-member Academy of Motion Picture Arts and Sciences denounced Smith's actions and said it was reviewing the matter. "We have officially started a formal review around the incident and will explore further action and consequences in accordance with our Bylaws, Standards of Conduct and California law," the Academy said . As per the group's conduct policy, violations may result in suspension or expulsion from the organization, revocation of Oscars, or loss of eligibility for future awards. dvv/wd (Reuters, AP)