For the past 18 years, Kenyan long-distance runner, Eliud Kipchoge has been entertaining lovers of athletics in his home country, across Africa and around the world. Kipchoge won marathon gold at the 2016 and 2020 Olympics and set the world marathon record with a time of 2:01:39 at the 2018 Berlin Marathon. His run broke the previous world record by 1 minute and 18 seconds. Kipchoge is also the first human in history to break the two-hour barrier at an astonishing average pace of 1 kilometer in 2 minutes, 50 seconds. These achievements did not come by chance, Kipchoge told DW in an exclusive interview from his farm in Kenya. Gold medalist Eliud Kipchoge (center) during the men's marathon victory ceremony at the 2020 Tokyo Olympics He spoke about the love and support he has received from the team around him all these years. "Oh I'm surrounded by my coach, Patrick Sang. I'm getting all the values, I'm getting what's needed from him, as far as living is concerned," he told DW's Edith Kimani. But Kipchoge said at the center of his exploits in the sport is "trusting myself, treating myself as the best one, living an honest life," as he acknowledges his coach for instilling in him such values while growing up. Kipchoge won his first individual world championship title in 2003 when he emerged victorious in the junior race at the IAAF World Cross Country Championships and set a world junior record over 5,000 meters on the track. He started chalking up success at an early stage and continues to enjoy that even deep into his career. For Kipchoge, holding on to his integrity and giving his best at all times has paid off. "The value actually of integrity. In sports, what I mean with integrity is courage to go to the next mile," Kiphoge told DW. "Courage to face anything in your life. The value of the family, the value of self-discipline, the value of consistency. I can't live without those values, that is not Eliud." Marathoner Eliud Kipchoge holds up two fingers after winning back-to-back gold medals Last year, three great Kenyan athletes died — including the record-breaking distance runner Agnes Tirop, who was found dead with stab wounds to her stomach in a suspected homicide. There are several successful athletes who continue to struggle with mental health conditions including depression. Kipchoge is concerned about this situation and the impact it is having on Kenyan athletes. "I think the mental stress with sports men and women actually is increasing and it's unfortunate," he lamented. "But it's a result of living or being surrounded by negative people." The sporting legend revealed that he is able to deal with such issues in a better way due to the people who surround him. "I've been surrounded for the last 18 years with positive people, both in sport and outside the sport. I think I'm one of the lucky ones. I've been actually following the right values and having a value actually myself, which I can't live without. I have things so that I can die with those things," he said. But Kipchoge said athletes would have to find a way of controlling their emotions and live a balanced life. "I understand life. You know in this world you need to understand life. And if anything comes my way, in a negative way, you need to understand. Because they say, where there is life, then there is a challenge," he said. In one of the game’s most touching moments, Qatar’s Mutaz Essa Barshim and Italy's Gianmarco Tamberi agreed to share the gold medal. Both had been inseparable and unable to clear 2.39 meters after two hours of the high jump final. Barshim inquired to an Olympics official whether the medal could be shared — the answer was yes. Skateboarding captured the imaginations of millions on its debut. While the medal winners such as local star Yuto Horigome should be celebrated, the good vibes around both the men’s and women’s competitions stole the show. No egos, no tantrums, just good times and a refreshing supportive atmosphere. An Italian? Yep, Lamont Marcell Jacobs took over Usain Bolt's mantle to win the men's 100-meter final. The little-known former long jumper shocked everyone to win gold, ahead of Fred Kerley and Andre De Grasse. Simone Biles could have realistically taken home five golds at the Olympics. But her mistake during the vault in the team final led to her withdrawing from five of her six events and taking leave to protect her mental health. Biles, who has been the face of gymnastics since winning four golds in Rio in 2016, stayed with her team and returned to the mat to win a bronze in the balance beam final. Caeleb Dressel was the star in the pool. Six different events, 12 total swims, record-breaking times and five gold medals. By winning gold in five events at the Olympics, Dressel becomes the fourth male in history to achieve this feat. Here he is in action during the 100-meter butterfly. Australian Emma McKeon was similarly prolific in the pool, winning seven medals, including four gold. The Sprinting Queen defended her 100-meter and 200-meter Olympic crowns in a sensational Jamaican double. Elaine Thompson-Herah has an icy relationship with her sprinting compatriots and rivals, but her relentless pursuit for victory took her back to her unbeatable best. She took home both golds. Again. American sprinter Allyson Felix won the first bronze of her storied career to make her the most decorated woman in Olympic track and field history. Felix has won six golds, three silvers, and now one bronze. It was also enough to tie her with Carl Lewis’ record of 10 Olympic medals. She also captured hearts thanks to affectionate interactions with her daughter, Camryn. In astonishing scenes, Norway’s Karsten Warholm broke his own 400-meter hurdles world record to become the first man to run under 46 seconds. Silver medallist, American Rai Benjamin, also broke Warholm’s old record. Sydney McLaughlin, of the US, also broke the women's world record. Women's swimming has a new star after Australia's Ariarne Titmus stole Katie Ledecky's crown in both the 200-meter and 400-meter freestyle. Titmus's coach's hysteric reaction to the 400-meter win was beamed across the world. She also won silver behind Ledecky in the 800-meter, with the American also claiming the 1500-meter event. Alexander Zverev enjoyed a milestone moment, overcoming Karen Khachanov in straight sets to win the men's singles gold at Tokyo 2020. Zverev produced some of the best tennis of his career in Japan, becoming the first German man to win singles gold in tennis. Screams of elation as teammates flock to Julia Grosso after her winning penalty kick sealed gold for Canada in women's football. The team defeated the US, ranked number one in the world, in the semifinal before conquering Sweden on penalties. Quinn also became the first trans, non-binary athlete to win gold at an Olympic Games. Tears for Tom Daley as he finally ended his long wait for an Olympics gold medal. He made his diving debut at the age of just 13 in 2008, but had never managed to stand atop the podium. Alongside Matty Lee, he grabbed victory in the synchronised 10-meter platform. After 16 years, Daley can finally call himself an Olympics champion. Author: Michael Da Silva Kipchoge is just the third marathoner to win back-to-back gold medals at the Olympics after Abebe Bikila (1960 and 1964) and East Germany's Waldemar Cierpinski (1976 and 1980). He now has four Olympic medals to his name — he won silver in the 5,000-meter event at the 2008 Beijing Olympics and bronze in the same event at the 2004 Games in Athens. Even at the age of 37, Kipchoge has revealed his dream is to win all six Abbott World Marathon Majors. He has won the London Marathon a record four times. All these successes and many more came alongside some challenges, he said and that includes getting injured and losing some races — but quitting is not an option he said. "Those are all of the challenges. If you don't have the basic training today, then tomorrow is [another] day. But it's good to have the worst in training that day, but finish the training,” Kipchoge said. Kipchoge is not quitting running any time soon but he is willing to inspire younger professionals to get to the top in their careers. For him, such professionals should be willing to make sacrifices and show that they are "really professional.” He considers a professional athlete to be somebody prepared to "build your career, you work and respect your ethics of your professionalism. So it's somebody who actually values the next person, it's easy to manage, it's easy to instil anything and instil in a positive way." Kipchoge also loves his country and wants to do more to improve the state of athletics in Kenya. He told DW that he is still hungry to perform and has a vision of making Kenya "a running country." Kipchoge revealed plans to "inspire the next generation." "If you say yes in your heart and mind, and say it in your mouth, then you can perform. It's not only about sports, it's about any profession," he said. "We need people to actually respect their professions. We need people to invest in themselves and invest in their families, their friends, their neighbors. That's what's on my bucket list at least," he added. Edited by: Keith Walker Kipchoge is just the third marathoner to win back-to-back gold medals at the Olympics