You can watch DW TV's live coverage of the war in Ukraine in this article or on YouTube This article was last updated at 10:09 UTC/GMT Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy appealed to Russians on Friday to "take to the streets and say that you want to live on earth without radioactive contamination" after the attack at the site of the Zaporizhzhia nuclear power plant, adding "radiation does not know where the borders of your country are." "Russian people, I want to appeal to you: how is this possible? After all we fought together in 1986 against the Chernobyl catastrophe," he said, evoking memories of the nuclear disaster. Russia's defense ministry has blamed the attack at the site of the power plant on Ukrainian saboteurs, calling it a monstrous provocation. Germany's trade unions and employers on Friday issued a joint appeal for new procedures in order to assimilate Ukrainian refugees into the German workforce. "Companies, works councils and staff councils stand ready to play their part in taking in these people, training and educating them and integrating them into the labor market," read the joint statement issued by the German Trade Union Confederation (DGB) and the Confederation of German Employers' Associations (BDA) on Friday. Shares began to drop on Friday while oil prices moderated as investors assessed the damage caused by Russia's invasion of Ukraine. Stocks fell in Europe and Asia and US futures edged lower. Germany's DAX declined by 1.4% to 13,493.83 and the CAC 40 in Paris lost 1.6% to 6,278.15. Britain's FTSE 100 fell 1.5% to 7,128.24. On Wall Street, the future for the benchmark S&P 500 was 0.5% down and the future for the Dow Jones Industrial Average dropped 0.4%. Thursday's death toll in the Ukrainian city of Chernihiv now stands at 47 after the effects of Russian air strikes on a residential district continued to be accounted for, regional authorities said on Friday. Rescue work had to be suspended on Thursday due to heavy shelling, emergency services said. Russian lawmakers on Friday approved legislation meaning a jail term of up to 15 years for anyone who provides what they perceive to be misinformation regarding the country's military. Adopted after a third reading, the bill sets out sentences of varying lengths and fines against people who publish "knowingly false information" about the armed forces, with harsher penalties to hit when dissemination is deemed to have serious consequences. German Foreign Minister Annalena Baerbock said Russian President Vladimir Putin's "war against Ukraine is also bringing ruin upon his own country" as part of an incalculable amount of suffering on all sides. "We will continue to show him, economically and politically, that he must expect closed trade and global isolation for Russia if he continues down this route. Baerbock said Putin wants to claim the whole of Ukraine. "For him, it's a perfidious game. For the people in Ukraine it's a fight just to stay alive." Germany's top diplomat said people would be provided for and supplied with urgent humanitarian assistance as well as other material support. "We will never abandon the Ukrainian people to their fate," Baerbock said. Russian authorities have moved to restrict access to a number of international media websites, including that of Deutsche Welle, that they accuse of providing false information about Russia's attack on Ukraine. Websites of the BBC, the independent news website Meduza and the Russian-language website of the US-funded Radio Free Europe/Radio Liberty, Svoboda, were also "limited" following a request from prosecutors, according to Russian media watchdog Roskomnadzor. Deutsche Welle has been able to confirm that access to its website from Russia has been blocked since early Friday morning, and that its services can be used only by employing a VPN or circumvention tool. Russia has intensified its crackdown on independent and critical voices since launching an invasion in Ukraine last week. On Thursday, the liberal radio station Ekho Mosvky announced it was shutting down after being taken off air over its coverage of the war. Ukrainian authorities say Russian forces have taken control of the Zaporizhzhia nuclear power plant in the countries southeast. A fire broke out at one of the reactors at the site after Russian shelling overnight. "Operational personnel are monitoring the condition of power units," the regional authority said on social media. It added that it sought to ensure the operations were in line with safety requirements. The New Development Bank (NDB) established by the BRICS group of emerging nations says it is suspending new transactions in Russia. "In light of unfolding uncertainties and restrictions, NDB has put new transactions in Russia on hold. NDB will continue to conduct business in full conformity with the highest compliance standards as an international institution," it said in a statement. Brazil, Russia, India, China and South Africa — known together as BRICS — are members of the NDB. Tech giant Google says it will halt all online advertising in Russia, in a ban that covers search, YouTube and outside publishing partners. Earlier, Google had stopped Russian state media from buying or selling ads on its platforms. "In light of the extraordinary circumstances, we're pausing Google ads in Russia. The situation is evolving quickly, and we will continue to share updates when appropriate," the company said in a statement. On Thursday, Russia's communications regulator Roskomnadzor asked Google to stop showing political ads with "false information" which it alleged aimed to "misinform" the Russian audience. DW spoke to nuclear safety expert Charles Castro about the fire at the Zaporizhzhia plant. "Of course a fire is very concerning at any nuclear plant. The nuclear plants are designed for severe fires and have counter measures and operators are trained to combat a fire situation. Plants are extremely robust to contain any radiation within the plant." But "obviously this is an unprecedented situation," he said. The UN has urged Russian forces to stop the attacks on Europe's largest nuclear plant and Castro concurred. "All attacks need to be stopped and operators need to be allowed to do their jobs to recover the reactors and safely shut them down so radiation can be contained." Ukraine's state emergency service said on Friday that the fire near the Zaporizhzhia nuclear power plant has been put out. Ukraine said in the early hours of Friday Russian forces had attacked the plant and a five-story training facility building next to it was on fire. A statement from the emergency services posted on Facebook said there were no victims in the fire. Brian Chesky, the CEO of Airbnb said in a tweet the international short-term rental bookings site is suspending "all operations in Russia and Belarus." Earlier in the week, Airbnb CEO Brian Chesky said the company was working with hosts to provide lodging for up to 100,000 Ukrainian refugees fleeing the Russian invasion of their country for free. Ukraine said emergency services were able to access the Zaporizhzhia nuclear plant where a training facility on the site's exterior caught fire following Russian shelling. Both the IAEA and the White House said they were actively monitoring the attack on Europe's largest nuclear plant and that there has not been an increase in radiation levels. The Ukrainian Embassy in Berlin has requested the German government provide Kyiv with tanks and warships to face down a Russian invasion. Additional items on Ukraine's list of requests include infantry fighting vehicles, artillery systems, such as self-propelled howitzers, air defense systems, combat and support helicopters, reconnaissance and combat drones and transport aircraft. Ukraine's formal request to the Chancellery, the Foreign Ministry and Defense Ministry read in part, "In view of the extremely tense security situation because of the ongoing Russian aggression, the Ukrainian government is seeking that this request be processed and favorably reviewed as quickly as possible." The note adds Putin started a "war of annihilation" against Ukraine. Berlin reversed its defense and Russia policy of many decades seemingly overnight following Russia's invasion of Ukraine. Germany has already provided 1,000 anti-tank weapons and 500 Stinger surface-to-air missiles after initially promising just 5,000 helmets. "Europe needs to wake up," Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy said in a video posted to Telegram after Russian troops shelled the Zaporizhzhia nuclear plant. "I am addressing all Ukrainians, all Europeans and everyone who knows the word Chernobyl," he said. "Tens of thousands had to be evacuated and Russia wants to repeat that, and is already repeating it, but six times bigger." He added that Ukraine has 15 nuclear reactors and "if there is an explosion it is the end for everyone." "Do not let Europe die in the nuclear catastrophe," he concluded. Surveillance camera footage shows a flare landing at the Zaporizhzhia nuclear power plant UK Prime Minister Boris Johnson called an emergency meeting of the UN Security Council over the war in Ukraine. Johnson said Putin could "threaten the safety of all of Europe." The Asian Infrastructure Investment Bank (AIIB) said it will be suspending business with Russia and Belarus, which have been hit by severe international sanctions since Russia invaded Ukraine. Belarus has provided Moscow with assistance and logistical support, including the use of its territory to mount the assault. "In the best interests of the bank, management has decided that all activities relating to Russia and Belarus are on hold and under review," the bank said in a statement, adding that management would do its "utmost to safeguard the financial integrity of AIIB." "AIIB stands ready to extend financing flexibly and quickly and support members who have been adversely impacted by the war," the statement added without much detail. The AIIB is a multilateral institution launched in 2016 at the initiative of Chinese President Xi Jinping to balance Western dominance of the World Bank and the International Monetary Fund (IMF). Russia is one of the founding members of the AIIB, holding a 6% vote in operations and has a seat on the board of the bank. The Bank of China holds a 27% stake, though Russia is the third-largest stakeholder after India. US President Joe Biden spoke with Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy about the fire that broke out at the Zaporizhzhia nuclear plant following Russian shelling, the White House said in a series of tweets. The White House wrote that Biden "joined President Zelenskyy in urging Russia to cease its military activities in the area and allow firefighters and emergency responders to access the site." The White House added that Biden "also spoke this evening with Under Secretary for Nuclear Security of the US Department of Energy and Administrator of the National Nuclear Security Administration to receive an update on the situation at the plant. The President will continue to be briefed regularly." US Energy Secretary Jennifer Granholm tweeted that she had spoken with her Ukrainian counterpart and said that the site's reactors are protected by "robust containment structures" and "are being safely shut down." Shortly after Russian shelling led to a fire at the Zaporizhzhia nuclear power plant, the International Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA) said there had been no change in reported radiation levels. Fighting has been reported at Zaporizhzhia, with Ukrainian authorities saying a training site outside the main plant is on fire. Firefighters have been unable to tend to the blaze as Russia keeps firing, an official from the Ukrainian Energy Ministry said. The plant director said on Ukraine 24 television that radiation at the facility was secure. Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy said Russia had resorted to "nuclear terror" by shelling Europe's largest nuclear power plant. Ukraine's foreign minister, Dmytro Kuleba, tweeted, "Russian army is firing from all sides upon Zaporizhzhia NPP, the largest nuclear power plant in Europe. Fire has already broke out." Kuleba added, "If it blows up, it will be 10 times larger than Chernobyl! Russians must IMMEDIATELY cease the fire, allow firefighters, establish a security zone!" Ukraine's energy ministry told Russia's RIA news agency that firefighters are unable to tend to the blaze at the plant as Russian troops continue to fire on them. Plant spokesman Andry Tuz said shells were striking the plant and one of the six reactors was on fire. He said the reactor that was hit was under renovation and therefore nonoperational. Tuz said it was imperative to cease fighting so firefighters could contain the blaze. Dmytro Humenyuk of the State Scientific and Technical Center for Nuclear and Radiation Safety told Hromadske that the power units have several layers of fuel protection. The plant generates 25% of Ukraine's electricity. Humenyuk explained that under certain conditions, the power units can withstand up to 10 tons but are not designed to be hit by bombs or projectiles. If the reactor is seriously damaged and nuclear fuel exposed, the resulting catastrophe would be as bad as Chernobyl and if more than one reactor is hit, the result would be even more horrific. Warning of a "severe danger" if the nuclear reactors were hit by shelling, the International Atomic Energy Agency said it was in contact with Ukrainian authorities. Russia vowed to push forward with its invasion of Ukraine on Thursday, despite world condemnation and massive economic sanctions from the West. Russian Foreign Minister Sergey Lavrov said his country's "operation" in Ukraine will continue for now. He said any peace accord must include the "demilitarization" of Ukraine. Russian President Vladimir Putin lauded the "heroism" of Russian soldiers fighting in Ukraine. He claimed the war is "going to plan" and accused Ukrainian forces of using human shields without evidence. On the other side, Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy said he is willing to meet face-to-face with Putin. He said Western countries should provide Ukraine with planes if they are unwilling to enact a no-fly zone. Ukrainian and Russian negotiators agreed to set up humanitarian corridors for civilians during a second round of cease-fire talks in Belarus. Talks are expected to continue next week. The EU also agreed to a protection arrangement for Ukrainian refugees. German Chancellor Olaf Scholz called for a cease-fire in Ukraine and said a war is being waged against the Ukrainian people. At the same time, he said pursuing a "regime change" policy of taking out Putin is not an option. Sources in the German Economy Ministry said Berlin is expected to ship anti-aircraft missiles to Ukraine. Meanwhile, French President Emmanuel Macron spoke by phone with Putin, and warned the Russian leader he is making a "major mistake" in Ukraine. The French president said he believes the "worst is yet to come" in Ukraine following the conversation. The International Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA) has expressed alarm about fighting in Enerhodar, which is located near the major Zaporizhzhia nuclear plant. The US and UK unveiled new sanctions targeting pro-Putin Russian oligarchs. jsi, wd, ar/sms (Reuters, AP, AFP, dpa)