While Ralf Nestmeyer, vice president of the German PEN Center, was traveling to the Leipzig Book Fair, he saw many Ukrainian refugees fleeing the invading Russian army: at the train station in Nuremberg, when changing trains in Halle, and when arriving in Leipzig. He related the anecdote during an introduction to a Ukraine-themed panel, which he described as "the most important event to take place at the fair." The panel, held on March 20, was made possible within a very short time by the Book Fair Pop-Up in Leipzig in cooperation with the German PEN Center. Ukrainian writer Marjana Gaponenko, the German historian Karl Schlögel, Belarusian author Volha Hapeyeva and her Russian colleague Mikhail Shishkin spoke to the theme, "No to Putin's War — What Can Literature Achieve?" Ukrainian writer Marjana Gaponenko hails from Odesa on the Black Sea coast. She lives in Vienna and Mainz but talks daily with her grandmother who still lives in her home city. Born in 1932, the latter was raised in the Donbas region in the east that has been largely occupied by Russia. Following Vladimir Putin's occupation of nearby Crimea in 2014, the recent build up of Russian navy ships off the Odesa coast awakened bad memories for the writer's family. Right now, Gaponenko says that even she, the wordsmith, is at a loss for words. She feels it is "obscene to work on literature right now." But she found one word for this war, "genocide," adding that it must be "stopped as quickly as possible." Time and again during the panel, Gaponenko called for NATO to show strength and for Germany to also take tougher action against Russia. She said she will not find the right words until this war was won. But the words will return, since she firmly believes in Ukraine's victory. Karl Schlögel is also convinced that more needs to be done. The historian and Eastern Europe expert is a frequent traveler to Ukraine, and his books and essays such as "Decision in Kyiv: Ukrainian Lessons" interweave personal accounts to explain the situation in cities from Lviv to Odesa, Kyiv, Kharkiv and Donetsk. Karl Schlögel: Many German compatriots played down Putin's intentions Yet he told the panel that current events in these places he knows so well are beyond his imagination. His Ukrainian publisher is likely sitting with his 92-year-old mother in a basement in Kyiv at this hour, he said. Schlögel also recalled how people in Germany had long fallen for Putin's propaganda and did everything they could to avoid demonizing him. He said it was important to move beyond the "talk show circus" in Germany and to actually do something. Schlögel cites the Polish, Slovenian and Czech prime ministers who recently made a daring train journey to visit Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy in Kyiv to express their solidarity. The German author also had praise for Arnold Schwarzenegger's video appeal to the Russian people, which has been seen by tens of millions of people and has done "more than writers and strategists have come up with," said the historian. Belarusian author, translator and linguist Volha Hapeyeva escaped Alexander Lukashenko's regime and lives in Munich. A few years ago, she worked as a translator in Minsk and was not allowed to use the word "war" in connection with Ukraine after the events of 2014. Her boss pointed out to her that "conflict" was the official word. The discourse was already manipulated then, she says. "Euphemisms can be dangerous," Hapeveya realized. Now Hapeyeva is in contact with a Ukrainian linguist friend who is on the run. As for the impact of writers on the war, Hapeyeva said that "normal language no longer works." She also wondered whether "the word still be trusted?" Living in Switzerland since 1995, Mikhail Shishkin is one of the most widely read Russian authors, and the winner of the Russian Booker Prize for "The Taking of Izmail" in 2000. Shishkin famously published an open letter in 2013 after refusing to represent Russia in the US Book Expo. He called Russia a "country where power has been seized by a corrupt, criminal regime, where the state is a pyramid of thieves, where elections have become farce, where courts serve the authorities, not the law." Shishkin still has many friends in Ukraine and has taken in a refugee family from Odesa at his home. About Putin, he said at the panel: "He can't win the war and he can't lose it." NATO will not interfere in the war, he says, and Ukraine must "single-handedly destroy the Russian army." In this, he said, they must be supported. The fact that Putin still enjoys a lot of support in his country is not solely due to propaganda, he said. "In Russia, there are two different peoples," he explained: A small part have European values, but the majority lives with a patriarchal mindset and identify "with the tribe." Putin's propaganda has widened this divide, he said. Initially, Disney announced it would no longer release films in Russian cinemas. Now the corporation is halting all its activities, from its TV channels, including TV content marketing, to licensing and cruises. In a statement, Disney said it is taking the steps in light of "the relentless assault on Ukraine and the escalating humanitarian crisis." The Cannes Film Festival announced on March 1 that it would "not welcome official Russian delegations" or people linked to the country's government. A number of film festivals are reacting similarly, including Glasgow and Stockholm. Locarno has announced it would not join a boycott, whereas Venice will offer free screenings of a film about the 2014 conflict in the Donbas region. The European Broadcasting Union (EBU), which organizes the song contest, stated on February 25 that "in light of the unprecedented crisis in Ukraine, the inclusion of a Russian entry in this year's Contest would bring the competition into disrepute." Meanwhile, Ukraine's folk rap Kalush Orchestra (photo) have emerged as the act with the best odds to win. London's Royal Opera House has canceled the summer season of Moscow's Bolshoi Ballet. The Metropolitan Opera's staging of "Lohengrin," co-produced with the Bolshoi, will also be affected by the New York opera house's decision to cut ties with Russian state-supported artists. Until now a Putin loyalist, Bolshoi director Vladimir Urin was however among the signatories of a letter opposed to the war. Many Russian artists have condemned the war. But despite an ultimatum from the Munich Philharmonic to publicly position himself, star conductor Valery Gergiev remained silent on the war led by Putin, his friend since 1992. On March 1, the German orchestra fired its acclaimed chief conductor, and the globe-trotting maestro's numerous concerts in Europe and the US have also been canceled. The Metropolitan Opera in New York and the Berlin State Opera have ended their collaboration with Russian opera star Anna Netrebko, who was asked to "repudiate her public support for Vladimir Putin," but declined to do so. She is "one of the greatest singers in Met history," said the opera house's director Peter Gelb, "but with Putin killing innocent victims in Ukraine, there was no way forward." Amid calls for cultural institutions to remove allies of Putin from their boards, museums are cutting ties with major Russian benefactors. Billionaire Vladimir Potanin has stepped down from the board of trustees of the Guggenheim Museum (photo), according to The New York Times, while Artnet reports that banking magnate Petr Aven has left his position as a trustee of the Royal Academy in London. Amsterdam houses the largest satellite of Saint Petersburg's storied Hermitage Museum. It had until now never commented on Putin's political actions, but "with the invasion of the Russian army in Ukraine, a border has been crossed. War destroys everything. Even 30 years of collaboration," the Dutch museum stated on March 3. They are also closing their current exhibition, "Russian Avant-Garde." It is not always the organizers of events who are boycotting Russian acts. At the Venice Biennale, which starts on April 23, it is rather the artists and curator of the Russian exhibition who have resigned, stating on Instagram that "the Russian Pavilion will remain closed" in protest of civilians being killed by missiles and Russian protesters being silenced. Following Disney's lead, Warner Bros, Sony, Paramount Pictures and Universal have all decided to halt the release of films in Russian cinemas. "The Batman" (photo) was to be released in the country on March 4. Other upcoming titles affected by the decision include Disney's Pixar animated film "Turning Red," Paramount's "The Lost City" and "Sonic the Hedgehog 2" and the Marvel film "Morbius." "Ukraine, we stand with you, and with all those in Russia who oppose this brutal act," said Nick Cave. He has canceled his Russian tour dates planned for the summer, just like many other groups, including Franz Ferdinand, The Killers, Iggy Pop and Green Day. Popular Russian rapper Oxxxymiron has also canceled his shows in the country, calling for an anti-war movement. Author: Elizabeth Grenier Shishkin did not shy away from his own complicity. "I am Russian. It is in the name of my people that these crimes are being committed," he said. "I can only ask Ukraine for forgiveness in the name of other Russians," he added, even though this will not be immediately possible. The author recalled that the German people only managed to escape the vicious circle of dictatorship after World War II after a "crushing defeat." This, he said, was the only way that "zero hour," a fully new start for a denazified nation, was possible. Shishkin therefore "hopes for a crushing defeat of the Russians by the Ukrainians" that will ultimately bring down Putin. "Literature always fails when a war starts," Shishkin said toward the end of the panel. But when the war is over, only culture can overcome "the hatred and pain." he said. "Then literature will get to the point," he said. "Then we will need it to overcome the abyss between us." This article was translated from the German