Gunmen killed two Israelis in the northern Israeli city of Hadera on Sunday, according to medics and police. The so-called Islamic State claimed responsibility for the attack, releasing videos of the alleged assailants pledging allegiance to the terror group. Israeli Prime Minister Naftali Bennett headed to the scene of the incident shortly after the news broke, his office said. The two attackers were also shot according to Israeli police. Paramedics said that four people were injured, two seriously, in the incident that took place in the coastal town. Israel's national emergency services confirmed the deaths of one man and one woman. The Times of Israel newspaper cited the Magen David Adom ambulance service as saying the injured individuals included two men in their 20s, who had been left seriously injured, as well as a 45-year-old man and 20-year-old woman. The victims were taken to a nearby hospital and several people were treated for shock In video footage being circulated by Israeli media, two gunmen can be seen opening fire before they themselves are shot. A police spokesperson said some border guards who had been sitting in a nearby restaurant ran to the scene and shot the attackers dead. Police referred to the attackers as "terrorists," a term usually limited to Arab perpetrators. The Times of Israel reported that police had said the men were Arab Israelis. Residents in the Arab Israeli city of Umm El Fahm, near to Hadera, said that many police had been deployed there. The Islamist movement Hamas that rules the Palestinian Gaza Strip called the attack a "heroic operation" and a "natural and legitimate response" to Israel's "crimes against our people." Another Islamist group, Islamic Jihad, said the attack was "an eloquent message from our people against attempts to break our will". On Tuesday four people were killed in a knife attack in the southern city of Beersheba. The attack came as foreign diplomats gathered in Israel for a regional summit The latest attack comes as US and Arab diplomats meet in Israel's southern Negev region for an unprecedented regional summit hosted by Israeli Foreign Minister Yair Lapid. "I briefed the participants of the Negev Summit on the details of the Hadera attack," Lapid said in a statement. "All the foreign ministers condemned the attack, sent their condolences to the families of the victims and wished a speedy recovery to the wounded." US Secretary of State Antony Blinken, one of the diplomats taking part in the summit, condemned the attack in a separate message on Twitter. "Such senseless acts of violence and murder have no place in society. We stand with our Israeli partners and send our condolences to the families of the victims," he said. An Israeli official told AFP that the planned events were going ahead and the diplomats were dining together before further meetings on Monday. ar, ab, kb/wd, jsi (AFP, Reuters, AP, dpa)