A US federal judge on Monday found it "more likely than not" that former President Donald Trump illegally sought to obstruct congressional certification of the 2020 presidential election in an attempt to overthrow the elected government of Democrat Joe Biden. "Based on the evidence, the court finds it more likely than not that President Trump corruptly attempted to obstruct the Joint Session of Congress on January 6, 2021," said US District Court Judge David Carter of California. Carter's ruling struck down attempts by former Trump lawyer John Eastman to shield communications between himself and the former president from the House Select Committee to Investigate the January 6 Attack on the United States Capitol. Eastman argued attorney-client privilege in justifying his refusal to cooperate. The Select Committee, for its part, argued legal exception allowing the disclosure of communications regarding ongoing or future crimes. On January 6, thousands of supporters of former President Donald Trump flocked to the US Capitol, waving flags and claiming the election had been stolen from their political idol. Later, some 800 protesters stormed the iconic building, hunting down lawmakers, beating up police officers and leaving a trail of destruction. Five people died in connection with the riot and dozens were injured. Many observers later said the riot marked an attempt to overthrow the government, instigated or orchestrated by the former president. A select committee of the US House of Representatives has begun investigating the events, and Trump's possible role in them. For his part, Trump has claimed there was "love in the air" on January 6. The Capitol riot sparked global outrage. Many Republicans still, however, say the incident was a legitimate means of protest against what they claim was a rigged election. Some Republicans have even staged rallies outside US prisons in support of jailed rioters. The exact interpretation of the January 6 events will certainly have a big impact on the US midterm elections in November 2022. Hundreds of individuals are facing prosecution over their role in the January 6 attack. So far, over 50 people have been sentenced for their actions on that day. Many left a slew of evidence on social media, boasting of their crimes, which has helped in handing down convictions. Defendants willing to plead guilty can hope to receive a reduced sentence. The city of Washington, D.C, is suing members of the right-wing extremist group Proud Boys, loyal Trump supporters, to recoup damages for the Capitol attack. Authorities have accused the group's leaders of having conspired "to terrorize the District of Columbia" in "a coordinated act of domestic terrorism." Criminal charges have already been brought against several Proud Boys members. Radio host and conspiracy theorist Alex Jones is considered a key instigator of the Capitol riot. He drummed up support for the pro-Trump march in Washington, calling for a million people to turn up and protest against allegedly corrupt Democratic Party. The congressional panel investigating the events of January 6 has found Jones helped finance the rally. Images of Jacob Chansley, a topless, tattooed rioter wearing a striking, horned headdress, went around the globe. He soon became a symbol of the January 6 attack. Now, the self-proclaimed "QAnon Shaman" and conspiracy theorist from Phoenix, Arizona, has pleaded guilty and been sentenced to 3 1/2 years in jail. Capitol Police officer Aquilino Gonell broke down as he rewatched footage of the deadly riot during a hearing of the congressional panel investigating the attack in July. That day, Gonell recalls, he thought "this is how I'm going to die, defending this entrance." One of Gonell's fellow police officers was killed in the Capitol riot, and four others committed suicide in the months that followed. The reason die-hard Trump supporters managed to force their way into the Capitol is that US security agencies were unprepared. The US Senate found that despite warning signs of a potential attack, the police leadership failed to act: National Guard reinforcements were called in too late, and the FBI and the Department of Homeland Security downplayed the threat of violence. Many political analysts predict Donald Trump will run again in the 2024 presidential election. While his supporters would be elated, critics would surely regard this as a nightmare come true. Until now, Trump has weathered practically all political scandals — not even his role in the January 6 Capitol attack seems to have undermined a potential comeback. Author: Oliver Pieper, Goran Cutanoski Monday's ruling on the committee's March 3 request represents a major legal victory on its most formal attempt to directly tie Trump to a federal crime. The committee argued to the court that Trump and those associated with him engaged in a "criminal conspiracy" to prevent Congress from certifying Joe Biden the election winner, committing several felony crimes along the way. The committee claims Trump and associates had spread lies claiming that he had won the election when in fact he had lost, then set in action numerous plans to keep lawmakers from certifying Electoral College votes on January 6 as laid out in the Constitution. Among the avenues pursued, beyond a mass misinformation campaign, were the badgering of state and local authorities to contest or change results as well as Eastman's plan to have Trump pressure his loyal Vice President Mike Pence to simply declare Trump the winner of the election. Communications to that end are among those the Select Committee is seeking from Eastman. Citing the fact that the "illegality of the plan was obvious," Judge Carter wrote that the former president's plan to overturn the November 2020 election amounted to a "coup." In Monday's ruling Carter ordered Eastman to hand over more than 100 emails sent between he and Trump as the former president feverishly worked to entrench himself in office after his defeat. "Dr. Eastman and President Trump launched a campaign to overturn a democratic election, an action unprecedented in American history," Carter wrote, adding, "Their campaign was not confined to the ivory tower — it was a coup in search of a legal theory." The Select Committee does not have the power to bring charges against Trump — past Congressional attempts to impeach him also failed to garner enough Republican votes to punish the businessman politician — instead it must make a referral to the Department of Justice asking it to bring charges. After interviewing more than 650 individuals, it is expected that the nine-member panel investigating what was the worst attack on the Capitol since the War of 1812 will formally request that Attorney General Merrick Garland seek federal charges against Trump. More than 750 people have so far been charged for crimes related to the storming of the Capitol on January 6, many arguing they were there simply to help Trump "stop the steal." js/rt (AP, Reuters)