"We are not giving up, we are part of Ukraine!" This defiant phrase rings out daily in the streets of towns and villages of the Kherson region. The area in southern Ukraine has effectively been under Russian occupation since the first days of the war against Ukraine. But people in the city of Kherson, and in Nova Kakhovka, Kakhovka, Hola Prystan, Skadovsk, Oleshky, Henichesk, Novotroitske and Chaplynka, have been peacefully protesting against the presence of Russian troops, saying they weren't invited and should just leave. "We had another rally yesterday. More than 5,000 people came, all carrying blue and yellow flags," said Yevhen Ryshchuk, the mayor of Oleshky. "People sang the anthem and signed appeals to the US president and European heads of state, asking them to close the airspace over Ukraine." The situation is similar in all these towns and villages. They've been encircled by Russian troops who, for the most part, control the roads in and out but stay outside. The only exception is Nova Kakhovka, which stretches along both banks of the Dnieper River and is home to a hydroelectric power plant. There, Russian troops can be seen on the streets of the city center. The Ukrainian flag continues to fly in every municipality, where the authorities are still taking care of local concerns. "We have electricity, gas, water, the communal services are working," said Oleksandr Yakovlev, mayor of Skadovsk. "People and volunteers have organized themselves into associations to prevent looting. We can only contact the central state power authorities by phone. But how can they help us now?". "There are big problems with logistics. People can't pick up their pensions at the post office, because no money has been delivered." Skadovsk is located some 30 kilometers (about 18 miles) from the administrative border with Russian-occupied Crimea, and 100 kilometers from Kherson. Unlike other parts of the country, Skadovsk hasn't really seen any fighting. It was besieged in the first hours after the initial attack on February 24 by Russian troops, who immediately set up checkpoints everywhere, said Yakovlev. "People are being let through, but their cars and identity papers are checked. Civilian vehicles have also come under fire, and there have been victims. Yesterday, they shot at an ambulance, but there were no casualties," said the mayor. On the morning of March 9, Russian armored vehicles drove directly into the city and positioned themselves in front of the city hall, but did nothing else. Both mayors said they hadn't been contacted by the Russian military, which had not made any demands. They suspected that the soldiers themselves did not know what to do with the occupied territories. In any case, said the mayors, the Russian troops had not been received with flowers by the locals, as Russia's top leaders had expected. Volodymyr Kovalenko, the mayor of Nova Kakhovka, has set up a temporary office in a municipal utility building because the town hall has been occupied by the Russians, who are using it as their headquarters. Kovalenko said they had appointed an administrator, and imposed a curfew. "The town is under the control of the Russian army. I make sure that life goes on somehow," said Kovalenko. He said he only makes contact with the occupiers through his deputy — and only when he needs help with a problem he can't solve himself, such as making a trip along the road over the power plant dam, which is also under Russian control. He added he was trying to get food delivered to residential districts. Other mayors have no contact at all with the Russians, including Mayor Ryshchuk in Oleshky. He said there were more than 100 bodies lying on a bridge over the Dnieper River, which connects his town with the city of Kherson. No one has been allowed to go recover the bodies of the civilians and Ukrainian soldiers killed in the fierce fighting, not even priests or volunteers. "There is no one to talk to," said Ryshchuk. "People are constantly changing at the checkpoints. Who is there to negotiate with?" Agriculture is one of the region's industries, meaning the locals still have access to food staples. Farmers from the surrounding areas have brought vegetables and meat into the cities. Defunct mills are being repaired so that they can supply bakeries with flour and oil. But fuel and medicine, especially for cancer patients, is scarce. "The food in our warehouses will last for another 10 days. But we have no extra supplies of medicine, fuel and lubricants. What we have will only last for one or two more days," said Kovalenko. In Kherson and other towns in the regions, volunteers have been providing food for locals The mayors set aside fuel reserves for municipal vehicles and ambulances. But when these run out, life in these towns and villages will likely be completely paralyzed — and no one knows what will happen next. Parts of the region no longer have mobile phone coverage. But people still have access to Ukrainian television broadcasts, even though the transmitter tower in Kherson has been occupied by Russian troops. Many people also have satellite dishes, and others are able to get information via the internet. "People here are very pro-Ukraine. This staged show, with Russian humanitarian aid being distributed in front of Russian TV cameras, doesn't work with the people here," said Anton*, an activist from Henichesk, adding that pro-Ukraine rallies with thousands of participants would show the Russians that they're not welcome. Locals have said Russia staged a delivery of humanitarian aid in front of Russian TV cameras "The Russian soldiers told us they had not come as conquerors. But in the meantime, they have threatened us by saying if they're provoked, they'll raze the town to the ground," said Anton. He said many residents wondered why such a large part of Kherson region had gone to the Russian army without a fight. But they hoped Ukraine would soon regain control over its territory. Meanwhile, according to the Ukrainian Armed Forces, units of the Russian National Guard have been deployed to the region, and more than 400 Ukrainian citizens were arrested in the region on Wednesday. This article was originally published in Ukrainian *DW has changed the activist's name to protect his identity After his return from the 2022 Winter Olympics in Beijing, Dmytro Pidruchnyi enrolled in the Ukrainian National Guard to fight after Russia’s invasion of his country. The 30-year-old is a former European champion biathlete and has been to two Olympic Games. One of the most famous sportspeople from Ukraine, Vitali Klitschko held the World Heavyweight Championship belt in the 2000s in the WBO and WBC organizations and made 12 successful defenses of his titles. He has been the mayor of Kyiv since 2014. The 50-year-old told AFP he was "ready to take up arms" in the defense of his homeland. Vitali's brother, Wladimir Klitschko, won the 1996 Olympic boxing gold medal before capturing the IBO, WBA, IBF and WBO titles in the heavyweight division. He retired in 2016, but the 45-year-old has joined the reserves of the Ukrainian army in support of the war effort against the Russian invasion, just like his older brother. Former tour player Sergej Stachowski is mostly famous for beating Roger Federer in the second round of Wimbledon in 2013, when ranked 116. Now aged 36, he has returned to Ukraine to join the fighting after Russia invaded the country in late February. Usyk is the reigning unified WBA (Super), IBF, WBO and IBO heavyweight champion of the world. The 35-year-old 2012 Olympic gold medalist has enrolled in the Ukrainian army to protect his country. "I don't want to shoot, I don't want to kill but I have no choice," Usyk has been quoted as saying by news agency AFP. Former right back Oleh Luzhnyi won the Premier League and FA Cup with Arsenal in the early 2000s. The 53-year-old has joined the war for his homeland. "The situation is horrific," he told Sky Sports. "I want to come to coach in the UK but before anything I will stand firmly and fight for my people, for my country and for democracy.” One of the greatest boxers to come out of Ukraine, Lomachenko won two Olympic gold medals in the featherweight and lightweight divisions before claiming world titles in three divisions. He won his most recent fight in December against Richard Commey at the Madison Square Garden. The 34-year-old has enlisted in the Ukrainian forces in the fight against Russia in his hometown, Bilhorod-Dnistrovskyi. Vernydub is the coach of Sheriff Tiraspol, the Moldovan team that defeated Real Madrid 2-1 at the Santiago Bernabeu in the Champions League in September 2021. The 56-year-old former defensive midfielder has now joined the Ukrainian forces in the fight against Russia. He played in the Russian Premier League for Zenit Saint Petersburg from 1997 to 2000. A mixed martial artist, Amosov is the reigning Bellator MMA Welterweight Champion. The 28-year-old has committed himself to defend Ukraine, thereby foregoing his chance to defend his title in May against Michael Page. Author: Lolade Adewuyi