Jack Sweeney, a 19-year-old student in America, has form. He's known as the teenager who tracks rich people's private jets. He posts their movements on Twitter, using publicly available data and an automated computer program, known as a "bot". Sweeney first came to the media's attention for tracking the movements of leading names in the technology industry, people like Elon Musk and Jeff Bezos. But he is now also tracking private jets owned by some of Russia's richest billionaires, the so-called oligarchs. Sweeney's new automated Twitter account, or bot, is called Russian Oligarch Jets. The bot uses a public database to track the aircraft and then automatically post tweets with their locations and their flight times, whenever one of the planes takes off or lands. One of its targets is Vladimir Potanin. Potanin is the 10th richest person in the world and the second richest in Russia. The Bloomberg Billionaires Index reports Potanin's estimated net worth to be about $87 billion (€78 billion). It also tracks Roman Abramovich's planes and helicopters. Abramovich owns, among other things, Chelsea Football Club in the UK — although he has handed over stewardship of the club, it seems, because of the war in Ukraine and the sanctions that have been imposed on Russia as a result. One of Abramovich's planes was recently spotted flying off St. John's in Antigua and Barbuda in the Caribbean. But that does not necessarily mean he was on the plane. Sweeney told The New York Post that he started the new account after receiving "requests" when the US and its allies started imposing those sanctions on Russia and "its elite," as the US newspaper puts it. @RUOligarchJets uses a crowd-sourced public database called ADS-B Exchange. Voluntaries, known as "feeders," track flights, using three bits of cheap equipment. Elon Musk has offered Jack Sweeney money to stop Sweeney tracking Musk's private jet "All you need," says ADS-B Exchange, is a Raspberry Pi computer, a Software Defined Radio (SDR) scanner, and an antenna "which can all be had for $100 to $200." The feeders use the set up to receive ADS-B broadcasts from planes. ADS-B stands for Automatic Dependent Surveillance Broadcast. It is an aircraft surveillance technology that identifies aircraft, their positions and speed, among other things. It's like the Automatic Identification System (AIS) used on ocean ships. Anyone with an antenna can receive these broadcasts. You also need the SDR and computer to process the ADS-B signals, but that's basically how the database and Sweeney's Twitter bots work. The IT undergraduate has created another account called @PutinJet, which by its own description tracks "Russian VIP jets and any Putin may use." Sweeney has tweeted that he is tracking more than 150 aircraft, including "all the important US Air Force aircraft," and the US president's Air Force One. He has has posted lists of aircraft tracker numbers and their owners' names. But even Musk has wondered how the teenager was able to identify and track planes with a bot — that is, according to a screenshot of a direct messages between the two, published by The New York Post. "Maybe just by looking at planes of a particular type landing and taking off?" Musk appears to have asked Sweeney. There are open registries, but they seldom reveal all the details. So that's an open question. Sweeney says he started the tracker accounts, like @ElonJet, as a hobby. He says he is a fan of Musk's and was merely interested in Musk's interests. At time of writing, @ElonJet has close to 400,000 followers. And now Sweeney has become an interest in his own right. Musk asked Sweeney to stop tracking his craft, offering Sweeney $5,000. Sweeney declined. The college student then made a counter offer, asking Musk for $50,000. And Musk declined. Edited by: Zulfikar Abbany When the A380 was introduced, it put almost every other competitor on the airfield in the shadows — literally. With a length of 72.7 meters (238 feet) the plane has a wingspan of 79.8 meters and is over 24 meters tall. Singapore Airlines was the first airline to deploy the A380. Here the proud new owners are shown on the tarmac in Toulouse — gathered together to document the great day. Back then on October 15, 2007, the future of passenger flying was still seen in terms of size: The more passengers transported at once, the more profit for the airline. The superjumbo can carry more than 500 passengers in a three-class configuration, which is an increase of more than 100 passengers over its rival, Boeing's 747. Airbus' new aircraft boasts two passenger decks and first-class suites with proper beds. In an all-economy configuration, the plane could carry more than 850 passengers. The A380 was hailed for its roominess, large windows, high ceilings and quieter engines. Some carriers put in showers, lounges, duty free shops and bars on both decks, and passengers could choose to fly in their own private suite. In 2011 and 2012 a number of technical problems with the A380 were reported. Qantas, Emirates and Singapore Airlines all reported A380 flights that had to make emergency landings due to engine issues. In January 2012, Qantas and Singapore Airlines found cracks in the wings of their A380s. Investigations found they were caused by material and manufacturing problems and it cost €263 million to fix. Sadly, the A380's major selling point turned out to be its biggest downfall, with airlines saying they were unable to make the flight profitable if they did not sell every seat on the plane. "It's an aircraft that frightens airline CFOs; the risk of failing to sell so many seats is just too high," one aerospace industry source said. In January and February 2019, both loyal customer Emirates and Australian airline Qantas cancelled orders for the A380. Emirates instead decided to order some smaller planes from Airbus while Qantas withdrew its order for the purchase of eight A380s. After struggling to sell the giant planes, European plane manufacturer Airbus announced it would stop making its superjumbo A380 in 2021 due to lack of customers, bringing the life of the world's biggest passenger jet and one of the aviation industry's most ambitious and most troubled endeavors to an end. Author: Louisa Wright  