Taylor Hawkins, drummer of the rock group Foo Fighters, has died at the age of 50, a statement from the band said. His death was reported during the band's South American tour. They had been scheduled to play at a festival in Bogota, Colombia, on Friday night. No further details were immediately available, although the band said in a statement that his death was a "tragic and untimely loss." "His musical spirit and infectious laughter will live on with all of us forever,'' said a message on the band's official Twitter account. "Our hearts go out to his wife, children and family.'' Hawkins had played with the Foo Fighters since 1997, when he was recruited by lead singer and former Nirvana drummer Dave Grohl. He was known for his charismatic stage presence and played on the band's most successful albums, including "One by One'' and "On Your Honor,'' and on hit singles including "My Hero'' and "Best of You.'' He also co-starred in Foo Fighters' recently released horror-comedy film, "Studio 666.'' In Grohl's 2021 book "The Storyteller," he describes Hawkins as his "brother from another mother, my best friend, a man for whom I would take a bullet." "Upon first meeting, our bond was immediate, and we grew closer with every day, every song, every note that we ever played together,'' Grohl wrote. "We are absolutely meant to be, and I am grateful that we found each other in this lifetime.'' Before joining Foo Fighters, Hawkins drummed for Canadian singer Alanis Morissette. Trained as a jazz drummer, Charlie Watts joined the Rolling Stones in 1963, shortly after the band was founded. His playing was like his appearance: direct and straightforward. It was often said that the Rolling Stones would probably have long broken up without his calming influence and diplomatic acumen, as conflict flared between the quarrelsome Mick Jagger and Keith Richards. The son of Polish immigrants, he played with jazz legend Benny Goodman, among others, and became one of the key figures of swing. In 1938, he founded his own big band, Gene Krupa and His Orchestra, with which he scored hits in the US charts from the very beginning. He was one of the first drummers to make the drums famous as a sounding instrument and not just as a mere beat generator. Tony Williams is considered one of the most important post-war drummers. When Williams was just 17, Miles Davis brought the child prodigy into his quintet. Since he was too young for jazz clubs, he often had to enter them through the back entrance on concert nights. His technique, precision and speed are still breathtaking, even from today's perspective. Williams died of heart failure in 1997. The Beatles' Ringo Starr became the first real world star on the drums. Jazz influenced how he played, but he also became a kind of "joker" element in the band, much like other drummers up through the 1960s. He sang some of the most famous Beatles songs, then had a successful solo career and today, at 80, looks fitter than ever. In contrast to his colleague Ringo Starr, who today is considered a health nut, The Who drummer Keith Moon lived a typical rock'n'roll lifestyle. He died in 1978 at the age of only 32 as a result of alcohol and drug abuse. Moon is still considered an iconic rock drummer of the 1960s and 1970s due to his flashy and dynamic playing and performing. With his characteristic grooving and rolling beats, John Bonham aka "Bonzo" became the symbol of the rock drummer in the 1970s. Led Zeppelin's songs drew much of their sex appeal from the rhythms that Bonham evoked together with bassist John Paul Jones. They formed the perfect basis for the melodies of guitarist Jimmy Page and lead singer Robert Plant. Karen Carpenter became world famous with her brother Richard as the duo The Carpenters. She was both an excellent drummer, and a talented singer and entertainer. She made major appearances on US television and became a role model for countless female drummers, especially given that the spot behind the drums was dominated by men. She died in 1983 as a result of her anorexia. Best known as a member of the English rock band the Police, he is one of the great virtuosos of pop drumming: Stewart Copeland combines various seemingly incompatible genres into his style, including punk, reggae, pop and rock. No matter how tricky a rhythm or solo may be, Copeland glows with the joy of playing, while his driving beats remain one-of-a-kind. You can probably safely call him one of the godfathers of modern metal drumming: Lars Ulrich of Metallica. From the very beginning, the band's founder was also the band's mouthpiece, which is rather unusual for drummers. His technique is characterized by hard double-pedal playing, unusual syncopations and speed. Born into a family of musicians, the "queen of percussion" Sheila Escovedo aka Sheila E. played with Diana Ross, Herbie Hancock and Lionel Richie, among others, before becoming internationally known as Prince's drummer in the 1980s. In 1984, she began a successful solo career as a singer and percussionist that continues to this day. Probably very few can claim to have been a drummer in one of the most important rock bands of all time and then to have had an even greater career as a singer and guitarist. Dave Grohl, ex-Nirvana drummer and mastermind of the Foo Fighters, had that fortune and, above all, the talent and stamina for it. And he is still considered the "nicest guy in rock'n'roll." Probably Germany's best-known drummer, he is also a multi-talent: Dirk Felsenheimer, aka Bela B, is a drummer (who always plays standing up), singer, songwriter, guitarist, book author and actor. In his music career with the band Die Ärzte as well as a solo artist, he combines elements of punk, rockabilly, country, rock and pop in continually new and surprising combinations. Author: Philipp Jedicke Musicians paid tribute to Hawkins on social media late Friday, with Rage Against the Machine guitarist Tom Morello praising his "spirit and unstoppable rock power." "God bless you Taylor Hawkins," he wrote on Twitter alongside a photo of himself, Hawkins and Jane's Addiction singer Perry Ferrell. Black Sabbath frontman Ozzy Osbourne hailed Hawkins as a "great person and an amazing musician," while punk rocker Billy Idol described his death as "tragic." Finneas, Billie Eilish's brother, co-writer and producer, called him "an incredible talent, who didn't also need to be so kind and generous and cool but was all those things too anyway. The world was so lucky to have his gifts for the time that it did.'' nm/kb (AFP, AP)