He was a singer, actor and entertainer — but also an activist for peace and human rights. Harry Belafonte isn't only known for his light calypso sound that conquered the pop music world in the 1950s, but also for his commitment to the struggle against racial discrimination, marginalization, hunger, and poverty. He was born in the New York district of Harlem to a sailor from the Caribbean island of Martinique and an unskilled worker from Jamaica. His father, who used to drink a lot, often beat his children — at times so badly that they ended up in the hospital. Finally, his father left the family, and his mother returned to the Caribbean with Harry and his siblings. Harry was given into the care of his grandmother with the following words: "Don't let a single day pass by without making use of opportunities to fight for justice." Some years later, Harry Belafonte returned to New York, where he attended high school and dreamed of a career on stage. That, however, was particularly challenging in 1950s US due to racial segregation; people of color were not welcome in the limelight. But Harry refused to let himself be put off by that. He continued to prove his talent as an entertainer until he finally got a job in a renowned jazz club. Harry Belafonte and Joan Fontaine in "Island in the Sun" Then things developed very quickly for Belafonte. After he got his first role in the movie "The Bright Road" in 1954, he made his breakthrough as an actor in "Carmen Jones" one year later. He followed that up with his first record contract. His song "Mathilda" instantaneously became a hit. In 1956, his album "Calypso" was released and sold more than a million copies — a huge and almost miraculous success, especially for a musician of color at that time. From then on, Harry Belafonte was seen as the "King of Calypso." His "Banana Boat Song" made him a musical icon at a young age. Belafonte made use of his popularity in order to express his clear stance against racism and discrimination. In 1957, he shot the film "Island in the Sun," a love story between a Black man and a white woman — which proved to be a scandal. Also in real life, he transgressed racial boundaries by marrying a white woman. These tunes are known throughout the world: "The Banana Boat Song" with its cheerful "Day-O," or "Matilda," about a girl who steals money from a young man before disappearing to Venezuela, as well as the Caribbean love song "Island in the Sun." Thanks to these popular songs, entire generations know Harry Belafonte. In 1956, Belafonte had his breakthrough in pop music with the album "Calypso." Critics accused him of mixing calypso music with jazz and folk elements to create a canned pop sound. But Belafonte just laughed off the bad reviews, inviting his critics to a debate instead: "Anyone who tries to stop me with nonsense about what is or isn't commercial is in for a fight." By 1960, Harry Belafonte and Nat King Cole were superstars. Together, they started a production company called Cole-Belafonte Enterprises, which supported many musicians of color. They are said to have thrown a coin to decide whose name would come first to designate the company. They also memorably performed the song "Mama Look a Boo Boo" together on NBC in 1957. He dreamed of playing "Hamlet" on stage as a child. In 1954, film director Otto Preminger picked Belafonte for his musical film, "Carmen Jones." All actors in this adaptation of Bizet's opera "Carmen" were African-American. That's how Belafonte became famous. Roughly 40 films were to follow. Among them was "Buck and the Preacher," where Belafonte (left) starred alongside his friend Sidney Poitier. Harry Belafonte married three times. Pictured here is his second wife, Julie, with their son David. When they got married in 1957, interracial marriages were still unusual in the US, but that didn't stop the young couple. They stayed together for 50 years. One year after their divorce in 2007, Belafonte married for the third time. He had four children altogether. In his early years, Belafonte's rapid success as an entertainer could have been threatened by typical rock 'n' roll drug abuse problems. However, he avoided this direction by investing his energy in the Civil Rights Movement. Its icon, Martin Luther King, became his mentor and one of his closest friends. Burt Lancaster, Harry Belafonte and Charlton Heston participated in the historical demonstration in Washington D.C. on August 28, 1963. More than 100,000 African-Americans also took part, demanding equal rights. That's where Martin Luther King gave his famous speech, "I Have a Dream." Beyond the Civil Rights Movement, Belafonte has always been an activist for various humanitarian causes. One could count on Harry Belafonte's presence whenever hundreds of thousands of people would come together to demonstrate for peace and human rights. In 1981, he came to Bonn to join Germany's until then biggest demonstration for peace. That Saturday, more than 300,000 people assembled in Bonn's Hofgarten to protest against the nuclear threat. In 1983, Belafonte and West German rock star Udo Lindenberg were invited to East Berlin for a concert hosted by the Free German Youth (FDJ). The slogan was "For peace in the world - against NATO's double-track decision." The East German secret police, the Stasi, was present during the press conference, listening carefully to what the artists were saying. But that didn't frighten Belafonte. Belafonte was inspired by the British benefit project Band Aid, in which numerous pop stars participated to collect funds for famine relief in Africa. In 1985, together with Michael Jackson and Lionel Richie, he launched the project United Support of Artists (USA) for Africa. A total of 45 US pop stars sang "We are the World" together, raising money for drought victims in Ethiopia. Harry Belafonte was appointed UNICEF Goodwill Ambassador in 1987. He traveled to crisis regions to document living conditions there for the media. In 1993, he visited Rwanda in support of the UNICEF project, "Rwanda's Forgotten Children," which saved thousands of orphans from the genocide. Harry Belafonte became a close friend of Nelson Mandela. For many years, Belafonte fought against the apartheid regime in South Africa, demanding the release of Mandela. In 1990, he was honored by the Nelson Mandela Award. The picture shows Belafonte with his second wife, Julie, during their visit to Nelson Mandela in 1999. In 2014, Harry Belafonte was awarded an honorary Oscar for his lifetime achievement as an artist and social activist. "Perhaps we, as artists and visionaries, could influence people all over the world to see the better side of the human species," he said when he received the award. His old friend Sidney Poitier, who died in January 2022, was there on stage to congratulate him. Author: Silke Wünsch (ad) Harry Belafonte has always been more than just a good-looking singer with a soft voice who sold 150 million records and starred in numerous movies. Without regard for the consequences it could have on his career, he continued to advocate human rights, struggling for minorities like African-Americans and Native Americans, as well as against apartheid in South Africa, the Vietnam War and nuclear armament in the 1980s. He was also appointed a UNICEF ambassador for his continued commitment to the fight against poverty and hunger in the world. For Belafonte's 95th birthday, well-known stars such as John Legend, Laurence Fishburne, Danny Glover, Lenny Kravitz, Michael Moore and Tim Robbins will be celebrating him at New York's Town Hall. The "HB95" event includes performances and the presentation of the first Harry Belafonte Social Justice Awards. The awards ceremony marks the 10th anniversary of Sankofa, the social justice organization co-founded by Harry Belafonte. All proceeds from the event will benefit the non-profit organization, which is now run by Belafonte's daughter Gina.  This profile was originally written in German and was updated for Harry Belafonte's 95th birthday.