Ultraviolet light — specifically UVC — is great for killing pathogens. It is used as a heavy-duty cleaning solution in hospitals. It's also used to clean drinking water, purify air and disinfect surfaces. But that's usually far from direct human contact. The challenge is making it safe indoors, in spaces that are used by lots of people. That includes schools, gyms, airports and large offices. Researchers have been working on the idea for years. It's not the same as the idea proposed early on in the COVID-19 pandemic by former US President Donald Trump. Trump asked whether it was possible to inject people with disinfectants and expose our bodies directly to UV light. The science says that is not a great idea. UV can be dangerous. It can have serious health implications if we're exposed to too much, directly. A new study, however, suggests researchers may have found a way to use a type of UVC to kill COVID-like viruses and bacterial in a way that is safe for people. Donald Trump claimed that inserting UV rays into the body could kill COVID — the claim has been debunked by scientists We're exposed to ultraviolet light from the sun every day. UVC is one of three types of ultraviolet light. The three types of ultraviolet light are UVA, UVB and UVC. All three types can damage the skin and eyes. UVA makes up most of the ultraviolet radiation in the Earth's atmosphere. It reaches the Earth's surface and can, for instance, cause our skin to develop anything from wrinkles to cancer. It can cause cataracts in the eyes. UVB rays burn the top layer of the skin. They make you tan or sunburnt. UVC rays are the most dangerous of the three. But the atmosphere absorbs natural UVC completely so we're safe from it outdoors. David Brenner, director of Columbia University's Center for Radiological Research, has been studying the potential of UVC technology to kill viruses in settings safe for humans. Brenner has discovered that although UVC light is harmful to people, there is a form of UVC that can kill viruses without harming our skin or eyes — and it's called far-UVC. And Brenner's team has developed and tested a far-UVC lamp. UVC light does its damage when it is able to go beyond the surface of the skin and eyes and reach living cells deeper in the body. But far-UVC light is absorbed by the outer layers of the skin and eyes. As a result, far-UVC is prevented from reaching those deeper, living cells, and is less likely to cause any damage. Researchers have tested the theory on mice and it appears to work. There have been two small studies testing it on people as well. And those appear to show that far-UVC is safe for human exposure in the short term. But long-term studies on humans, and those with groups larger than 20 people, have yet to be published. Brenner's team have demonstrated in a study published in March that their far-UVC lamps kill bacteria in full-size rooms. Using five such lamps, the researchers found that it took less than five minutes to reduce the level of indoor airborne microbes by more than 98%. Far-UVC light is invisible, but you can see two far-UVC boxes in the ceiling near visible light spotlights on stage at the Club Café bar in Boston The researchers sprayed a continuous mist of bacteria into the room, then let it stabilize for an hour before turning on the far-UVC lamps. They took air measurements over the course of the next 50 minutes, testing different light exposures. Even at a low exposure, the lamps killed 92% of the bacteria in 15 minutes, they say. The study is the first to test the technology in a full-size room. Past experiments using far-UVC light have been conducted in laboratory settings. UV radiation is measured in wavelengths, and the unit for that is nanometers (nm). In the US, where Brenner and his team are based, the maximum daily exposure to UV is set at 222 nm. They used that as a standard for their experiments. And at those levels, they could put their far-UVC lamps on the US market. The standards vary internationally. In Germany, for instance, the maximum allowed UV exposure is lower. But Brenner says that staying within the German regulatory limit would still produce a major decrease in the microbial levels in occupied rooms. "If far-UVC lights had been installed in multiple public locations in Germany and operated within the current German regulatory limits, there's a good chance that a significant number of the people who have died from COVID-19 would still be alive," said Brenner. Other labs and companies, like Philips, have developed technology that distributes the UVC light indirectly — things like upper air disinfection luminaires and chambers. Edited by: Zulfikar Abbany The probe took these excellent pictures of our sun from 77 million kilometers away. Small solar flares have never before been so clearly visible. As it gets closer to the sun, the Solar Orbiter will specifically investigate these eruptions. It will also research how solar storms — which can cause problems for us on Earth — emerge. The sun is constantly sizzling, boiling, and erupting. The eruptions are usually small, but sometimes they can be huge. During larger solar storms, billions of tons of electromagnetically charged material are hurled into space and toward the earth. This can have consequences for us. Those eruptions can lead to power cuts or the collapse of mobile phone networks. Our sun had already been shining for billions of years before mankind even existed. Together with the planets of our solar system, the sun developed from a gas cloud 4.6 billion years ago. And it will probably continue shining for another five billion years, until its energy reserves run out. The sun is basically a huge nuclear fusion reactor. At its core, pressure and temperature are so high that hydrogen atoms merge together to form helium atoms. This process releases huge amounts of energy. One thimble of sun material generates as much energy as burning thousand metric tons of coal does. Seen from Earth, the sun doesn't seem big - it is just a bright spot in the sky. But it does have a radius of about 700,000 kilometres (435,000 miles). Its core is 15 million degree Celsius (27 million degree Fahrenheit). Temperatures on the sun's surface still reach 5500 degree Celsius (10,000 degree Fahrenheit). All stars in our universe glow because they generate energy deep down inside. Our sun is just like other billlions of stars scattered across the universe. In comparison with other stars, our sun is of medium size. Some stars are a hundred times bigger, others are just a tenth of the sun's size. The sun's surface is seething away. Hot and brightly glowing material ascends from the sun's inside, cools and sinks down again, appearing much darker. Our sun is the only star in the universe so close to Earth that astronomers can observe in such detail. Sometimes big dark spots appear on the sun's surface staying for about a month. Even before the birth of Christ, humans already knew of those spots, and Galileo Galilei later recorded their appearance in writing. But for a long time people were mystified where those spots came from. Now we know the answer: they're areas with a particularly strong magnetic field. When the sun is very active, geomagnetic storms develop. It's when the sun catapults a particularly high number of charged particles into space. Those particles can hit and destroy satellites. They might also disturb electric power substations on Earth and even lead to power breakdowns. This is another, much more beautiful effect of geomagnetic storms: an aurora, also called polar light. It occurs when charged particles of the sun hit the Earth's atmosphere. The frequency of how often we may enjoy this spectacle depends on the solar cycle. Every eleven years the sun is particularly active - that's when many geomagnetic storms and auroras can be observed. Author: Alexandra Hostert (with Fabian Schmidt)  