United States President Joe Biden has given his first State of the Union address since becoming president. He used the opportunity to say the US stood with Ukraine and that there was an "unwavering resolve that freedom will always triumph over tyranny," in reference to Russia's invasion. The 62-minute speech was a mix of domestic and international issues. A CNN Poll conducted by SSRS said 71% of the viewers had a positive reaction to it, with 41% reacting very positively. Biden said Russian President Vladimir Putin's attack on Ukraine was "premeditated and unprovoked." "Putin is now isolated from the world, more than he has ever been," Biden said to loud applause. "While he may make gains on the battlefield — he will pay a continuing high price over the long run," Biden said, and warned: "He has no idea what's coming." "Throughout our history we've learned this lesson: When dictators do not pay a price for their aggression, they cause more chaos,'' Biden said. "They keep moving. And the costs and threats to America and the world keep rising." Biden also warned Russia's oligarchs, who he said had built their fortunes off a "violent regime," and said "we're coming for your ill-begotten gains." It was announced that US airspace would be closed to all Russian aircraft. "We will join our allies in closing off American airspace to all Russian flights, further isolating Russia," Biden said. Biden said US forces would "not engage in the conflict with Russian forces in Ukraine," but they would be deployed to help secure NATO allies. The Biden administration has gone from dealing with the COVID-19 pandemic head-on into a serious security challenge in Europe. His speech comes as Russia continued its attack on Ukraine. DW's Washington correspondent Stefan Simons said a third of Biden's speech addressed Ukraine. The message, Simons said was that "we stand together with our allies, we stand unified. We stand with Ukraine and do what we possibly can. This includes not sending American or NATO troops to fight in Ukraine against Russia. And, it was a warning to Putin to not seek a fight with any NATO country, as it would trigger a response from the entire treaty," he said. Simons added that the conflict was presented as "good versus evil," and the West would present a unified front against Putin. The United States will "never just accept living with COVID," Biden said, emphasizing that the country would continue fighting the virus. "Thanks to the progress we have made this past year, COVID-19 need no longer control our lives," he said, but asked people not to let their guard down yet, as there could be further variants. He also outlined plans to address inflation by reinvesting in American manufacturing capacity, speeding supply chains and reducing the burden of childcare and eldercare on workers. "Too many families are struggling to keep up with the bills," Biden said. "Inflation is robbing them of the gains they might otherwise feel. I get it. That's why my top priority is getting prices under control." Delivering the Republican rebuttal to Biden's speech, Iowa Governor Kim Reynolds criticized the president's leadership, especially on the international front. "Instead of moving America forward, it feels like President Biden and his party have sent us back in time to the late '70s and early '80s, when runaway inflation was hammering families, a violent crime wave was crashing on our cities, and the Soviet army was trying to redraw the world map," she said. She said that Biden had failed both his election promises of making "America respected around the world," and also to "unite us here at home." In her 14-minute address, Reynolds said the country had emerged from the pandemic on the "wrong track," with inflation, rising energy prices, crime and moral decay. kb, tg/jsi (AP, AFP, dpa, Reuters)