At least two members of Ukraine's negotiating team and Russian oligarch Roman Abramovich suffered symptoms of poisoning following talks between Russian and Ukrainian delegations on March 3, The Wall Street Journal reported on Monday. The report, which was confirmed by the investigative journalistic group Bellingcat, said the symptoms included skin and eye irritation. However, these all appeared to subside within a day. The condition of those who reported suffering the effects of supposed poisoning have all improved and none is in danger, The Wall Street Journal reported. The reported poisoning took place during talks held in Ukraine. According to Bellingcat, the Ukrainian negotiators first felt the symptoms that night after returning to Kyiv. These included "eye and skin inflammation and piercing pain in the eyes," the group wrote on Twitter. The negotiators reached out to Bellingcat, which connected them with a chemical weapons specialist for examination. "The experts concluded that the symptoms were most likely the result of international poisoning with an undefined chemical weapon," the investigative group wrote. Experts also told them that the small dosage was probably not enough to be life-threatening and was likely meant to intimidate. Abramovich was involved in early talks, the Kremlin confirmed, but later rounds had been taken over by Russian negotiators. The billionaire and current owner of Chelsea Football Club had been traveling between Moscow and Lviv in an attempt to mediate between the two sides. Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy said the oligarch had wanted to "do something" to "help somehow" with the aim of de-escalation. Abramovich also has long-standing ties to Russian President Vladimir Putin. Abramovich was also the subject of personal sanctions following Russia's invasion of Ukraine. He has said that he will sell Chelsea. While it is not clear who was behind the suspected poisoning, it has been frequent tactic used against opponents of the Kremlin. Opposition figure Alexei Navalny was poisoned with Soviet-era agent Novichok while on a domestic flight and had to be taken to Berlin for treatment. This 143-meter (470-foot) Sailing Yacht A, also referred to as "SY A," is valued at around €530 million ($578 million). Italian authorities seized it after identifying the owner as Russian billionaire Andrey Igorevich Melnichenko. He owns major fertilizer producer EuroChem Group and coal company SUEK. Both companies announced recently that Melnichenko had resigned as a board member. Italian authorities also seized this 52-meter (170.6 foot) boat with an estimated value of €50 million as it was moored in San Remo, northwestern Italy. It is owned by Gennady Timchenko, chairman of the Russian national hockey league with stakes in oil and gas companies. The 69-year-old oligarch has been sanctioned by the US and the EU. The Dilbar has two helipads and a 25-meter swimming pool. Speculation has surrounded this 150-meter ship. Some German media reported that it was seized by authorities in Hamburg, where it is docked for repairs. Some officials declined to comment and others denied the reports, saying that they had been unable to confirm its ownership. The Dilbar superyacht ship is reportedly associated with oligarch Alisher Usmanov, who is on the EU sanctions lists. A spokesman for Usmanov told Der Spiegel that the yacht's ownership had been transferred "a long time ago" to a foundation for Usmanov's relatives. Eclipse is the second superyacht linked to Russian billionaire Roman Abramovich, owner of the English football club Chelsea, to have docked in a Turkish resort in apparent avoidance of EU waters. The 162.5-meter superyacht — one of the world's biggest — is reported to have two helipads, nine decks, a swimming pool and built-in missile defenses. The 140-meter-long ship, worth around €700 million, is currently the most infamous yacht in Italy. A New York Times report said US intelligence agencies have found initial indications that it is linked to Russian President Vladimir Putin. But other reports said Putin was not the documented owner. Italy is investigating its ownership. It has been reportedly parked for maintenance in Tuscany. Author: Farah Bahgat Ukrainian negotiator and presidential advisor Mykhailo Podolyak warned against false information following the reports of alleged poisoning. "In the information sphere right now there is a lot of speculation, different conspiracy theories and elements of one information game or another," Podolyak said, according to local media. Rustem Umerov, a member of the delegation who was said to have been one of the victims, wrote on social media on Monday morning that he was feeling "fine." "This is my response to all the yellow news 'gossip' spreading around. Please do not trust any unverified information. We have an informational war ongoing as well," he said. ab/rt (EFE, Reuters, AFP, dpa)