Ukraine's civil defense reacted the only way it could and fast: When ammonia leaked from a chemical plant in Sumy in the northeast of Ukraine, authorities told local residents to seek shelter in cellars and ground floor apartments. Ammonia is poisonous. As a gas, it is lighter than air and rises in the atmosphere. That's why it was best for residents to go down to lower ground and avoid inhaling any fumes. Reports suggest that a Russian shell had hit the chemical plant, which is used to produce fertilizer — of which ammonia is fundamental component. The leak has been fixed. Ammonia is a chemical compound consisting of nitrogen and hydrogen. It is one of the most produced chemicals in the world. About 170 million tons of ammonia get produced every year, and 80% of that is used as a the base chemical for nitrogen fertilizer. Ukraine is known as Europe's "granary" — it produces a lot of grain — and uses a lot of fertilizer. The country's black earth is fertile for cereal crop. Ammonia is also used in waste gas purification and as a refrigerant. In the future, ammonia may also be used in hydrogen and fuel storage systems. Ammonia is soften used to produce synthetic or nitrogen fertilizer There are only ever few cases of ammonia poisoning. It has a nasty smell so you can tell it is in the air. You may know the smell from horse stables or freshly fertilized fields. Sometimes, paramedics wake people who have fallen unconscious by holding an ammonia solution under their noses. The stink usually wakes them immediately. But, if you inhale too much ammonia, it can be poisonous. The eyes, nose and throat burn, people feel they have to sneeze and cough, their eyes water and they may also have a headache. If it gets to extreme levels, people can experience problems breathing and chest pain. The only way to help is to inhale lots of fresh air and steam. Ammonia does come about naturally, but in limited amounts. Ammonia gas is produced through the decomposition of plants and animal excrement. It is also produced in the human body and is useful in the production and degradation of amino acids. It is transported in the blood to the liver. To prevent ammonia levels getting too high in the liver, the gas is depleted via the urea cycle. You notice that when your urine smells strongly. In the past, ammonia was produced for fertilizer by heating limestone and the compound ammonium chloride. Later, ammonia was produced industrially, using nitrogen and hydrogen and the Haber-Bosch process. This process involves the two gases reacting under high pressure, with a metal catalyst and a temperature of 450 degrees Celsius (842 degrees Fahrenheit). This article was originally written in German. Around 385 million cases of poisoning by pesticides are reported every year. The numbers are highest in Asia, Africa and Latin America where more really dangerous pesticides are sprayed. Many workers do not wear protective clothing and few are properly informed about the dangers of using pesticides. In Chichigalpa, Nicaragua, many men have chronic kidney disease. It has been linked to their work spraying pesticides on sugar cane crops. Pesticides are found in varying quantities in water supplies and food all over the world, and studies have revealed connections to numerous illness, including cancers. Pesticides are sprayed to kill unwanted plants and insects. But this impacts many other species, including pollinators such as bees, as well as birds which are consequently losing their food sources. Scaling back on the use of dangerous pesticides is a key factor in tackling biodiversity loss. Scientiest researching bat health have found those that feed on nectar from conventional banana plantations have a reduced diversity of gut microbes. In contrast, those that forage for nectar in the forest have diverse gut microbes. Gut microbiota are important for both animal and human health, but can be altered by pesticides if they have antibiotic effects. Farm workers in India are less protected from highly toxic pesticides than people in Europe. Although some highly toxic pesticides are banned in the EU, manufacturers like Bayer and BASF continue to produce them for export. Despite calls for an end to the practise. In organic agriculture, the spraying of synthetic pesticides is not allowed, and crops are rotated in such a way as to prevent monocultures while encouraging insects and birds to thrive. For pest control there are natural alternatives. Here in Nepal, women spray a mixture of herbs and cow urine on the plants. This gallery was originally in German. Author: Gero Rueter  