The United Nations' highest court, the International Court of Justice (ICJ), is set to rule Wednesday on an urgent request by Ukraine for Russia to halt its invasion. The ruling by the court would be the first such verdict handed by an international court since the war in Ukraine began on February 24. Kyiv accuses Moscow of illegally trying to justify the war by falsely claiming genocide in eastern Ukraine's Donetsk and Luhansk regions. Ukraine's representative Anton Korynevych sought to get the ICJ to order Russia to "immediately suspend the military operations." "Russia must be stopped, and the court has a role to play," Ukraine's representative Anton Korynevych told the court, which is based in The Hague. Russia boycotted the ICJ's hearings earlier this month. In a written filing, Moscow argued that the court "did not have jurisdiction" because Ukraine's request fell outside of the scope of the UN's 1948 Genocide Convention upon which it based its case. Russia went on to say "it was acting in self-defense" to justify its invasion of Ukraine. Ukraine said the Genocide Convention, which both countries have signed, does not allow an invasion to prevent a genocide. There is no evidence of Ukraine committing or planning attacks that could be deemed crimes against humanity. Marieke de Hoon, an assistant international criminal law professor at the University of Amsterdam, told the AFP news agency that the ICJ only needed to determine whether there was a dispute over the interpretation of the Genocide Convention. "It won't be difficult for the ICJ to rule that this low threshold is reached," she said. "Whether Russia will oblige is an entirely different question." The ICJ was set up after the World War II to rule on disputes between UN member states, based mainly on treaties and conventions. The ICJ's rulings are binding, but it has no executive means to enforce them in countries. The case is separate from a war crimes investigation in Ukraine launched by the International Criminal Court (ICC), a separate tribunal also based in The Hague. Viktor Anatolyevich, 27, enters an underground shelter in Odesa with his 3-year-old daughter on March 9. Volodymyr Zelenskyy has been very visible as Ukraine's president, regularly appearing in short videos shot on mobile phone to boost the morale of his citizens. In this video from February 26, two days after Russia first invaded, he appeared in front of the well-known House with Chimeras in Kyiv, which usually serves as his residence. Many citizens have come together to construct Molotov cocktails in an effort to defend themselves and their communities. This group got together in western Kyiv on March 4. Citizens aren't just making provisional weapons — they're also learning how to use them, like this man in Zhytomyr, west of Kyiv, on March 1. Platforms were crowded at Kyiv's central train station on March 4, with people trying to leave the city and get on one of the evacuation trains. These people managed to make it to Poland on March 8, and were waiting at the Przemysl railway station to make their next move. Thousands of Ukrainians arrived at Berlin's main train station on March 2 — primarily women and children in search of shelter and safety. This photo taken on March 8 shows a destroyed apartment block in the eastern city of Kharkiv, with an abandoned playground in the foreground. Thousands of people, including this man in St. Petersburg on March 2, have been arrested in Russia for protesting against the war — though the government has said they can't call it a "war." On March 2, the well-known peace activist Yelena Osipova was also arrested in St. Petersburg — at the age of 77. Protests have also taken place all over the world, including near the Russian Embassy in Tokyo on March 10. On March 8, International Women's Day, people in Berlin gathered with symbols of peace in front of the Russian embassy in the German capital. A different picture in Damascus, Syria: On March 9, a group came out with Russian and Syrian flags to express their support for Moscow. On March 9, musicians with the Kyiv-Classic Symphony Orchestra performed on Independence Square in the center of the Ukrainian capital. After an attack on a maternity hospital in Mariupol on March 9, this woman was left standing with her bags in front of the damaged building. The attack sparked international condemnation. Author: Florian Görner Wednesday's ICJ session comes as Russian forces step up strikes on residential buildings in Kyiv. The number of refugees fleeing Ukraine has topped 3 million, according to the refugee agency UNHCR. The UN human rights office reported that 691 people have been killed and 1,143 injured so far, noting that the actual figures were likely "considerably higher." Meanwhile, Ukraine's President Volodymyr Zelenskyy said that the positions in the negotiations between Russian and Ukrainian representatives were starting to sound "more realistic." On Wednesday, Russian Foreign Minister Sergey Lavrov said there is "hope for compromise." fb/sms (AFP, dpa, Reuters)