In January 2022, amid yet another coronavirus surge and with the Australian nation's expectations unquestionably high, Ash Barty had the weight of the world on her shoulders. Pre-pandemic, the World No.1 had suffered an agonizing semi-final defeat at the 2020 Australian Open. Now, two years later, following an enforced COVID-related hiatus for the Slam, the home crowd were itching for their star player to provide a desperately coveted feel-good story. And Barty delivered, clinching her maiden home Grand Slam to become the first Australian woman to pick up the trophy since Chris O'Neil in 1978 - and, perhaps even more importantly for Barty, the first Indigenous woman to do so since Evonne Goolagong Cawley in December 1977. "I'm a proud Ngarigo woman, a very, very proud Indigenous woman," she had told the home crowd earlier in the tournament. "I love my heritage; I love to celebrate my heritage. It's what connects me to all of you here today. It's what connects me to the land. I think it's a beautiful way to express who I am." The 25-year-old's talent is not in doubt, but it has been abundantly clear since she burst onto the world stage as a teenager that the three-time Gland Slam champion was built differently. Which is why her retirement this week at such a young age - and as reigning champion of two Slams and holder of the World No.1 title for over 100 weeks - is not as big a shock as it first appeared.  According to data compiled by the Australian Bureau of Statistics in 2012, only 23% of Australia's Indigenous women were physically active or played sport, compared to 67% of non-Indigenous women during the 12-month period prior to the data collection. An Indigenous background can prove a barrier to success, but Barty broke the mold, clinching the 2011 Wimbledon junior singles title and reaching three doubles Grand Slam finals. However, struggling to make inroads into a talented singles field dominated by Serena Williams, Victoria Azarenka and Maria Sharapova, the teenager made another unique decision. Eight years ago, taking a "mental health break" in sport was far less commonplace, so it took the tennis world by surprise when she opted to take an indefinite break from tennis in September 2014. The announcement came just weeks after the then 18-year-old's biggest career achievement to date: reaching the US Open first round, the first time she had entered a slam event without requiring a wildcard. But, struggling with the limelight and a move away from her hometown in Queensland to Melbourne, Barty put her mental health before her ranking. Back in familiar settings, Barty focused on regaining her equilibrium, reconnected with her community, and coaching children. From tennis racket to cricket bat: Ash Barty returned to tennis via cricket Barty's eventual return to tennis was also unorthodox. In 2015, she was invited to speak at the national Australian women's cricket team dinner, reigniting a passion for sports just as a new professional women's domestic competition was about to be launched. Despite having minimal training in cricket, Barty earned herself a professional contract for Brisbane Heat in the inaugural Women's Big Bash League (WBBL) after impressing head coach Andy Richards. "Her skill from the first time she picked up a bat was outstanding," said Richards. "She never missed a ball in her first session. That's what attracted me to her as a player: her ability to pick up things really quickly." Following in the footsteps of her hero: Barty (right) with Evonne Goolagong Cawley in 2010 Spending time playing within a team environment reinvigorated Barty and the right-hander returned to tennis a few weeks after the end of WBBL season in early 2016. Three years later, she clinched her maiden Grand Slam title at the 2019 French Open. Two years after that, she replicated the feat of her mentor and idol Goolagong Cawley by winning Wimbledon - exactly 50 years after Goolagong Cawley had become the first Australian Aboriginal player to win in London. By the time she cruised to her third Grand Slam title in front of her adoring home Australian crown - without dropping a set - she had completed an astonishing turnaround, and she'd done it her own way. The pandemic has forced many athletes into lengthy periods of isolation and quarantine. In the extended time spent away from family and friends, many have taken the time to look inwards. But perhaps none more so than Barty, whose short career was unorthodox from start to finish.