From Kyiv, Nick Connolly notes that there has been broad unity within the European Union and allied nations such as Britain and the US, but, he adds, the full extent of the effect of sanctions and other financial measures used to isolate the Kremlin is not yet known. He asks how long people in the European Union, where economies are closely linked with Russia's, will be willing to accept financial punishment themselves as a result of punitive sanctions.  On International Women's Day Fanny Facsar reports from a women's shelter in Chernivtsi, where volunteers are offering food and protection for 120 internally displaced women and children. The shelter, which prior to the war provided a safe space for victims of domestic abuse, has opened its doors to refugees fleeing from places further east. Many women are also supporting the war effort by baking bread or sewing for the front-line fighters. In the capital, Mathias Bölinger describes the situation on March 8 as tense. People know that Kyiv has been a "prime target" since the war began. Despite the bombing in suburbs to the north of the city, Bölinger reports that he has not seen signs of a significant Russian advance. Trains are still running and transporting people from the suburbs to the central station, where they hope to catch a connection to destinations in the west, to Lviv and then on to Poland or Slovakia. DW Brussels bureau chief Alexandra von Nahmen, reporting from Lviv in western Ukraine, says many residents believe it's only a matter of time before the war comes to their city. Meanwhile, they are doing what they can to help the refugees arriving from the east, but authorities are struggling with limited resources. Von Nahmen reports that the mayor has said he is worried the city might not have enough places to house all the displaced people. She describes the stories from women fleeing Mariupol and Kharkiv as "heartbreaking." Some have told her they were forced to leave their elderly mothers behind, without food and water and no contact to the outside world. Anna Fil has also been reporting from Lviv, where she says the situation has worsened. Thousands of people are crowding the railway station, waiting in a huge line for a spot on a train heading west. "People standing in it can't even tell where they are going exactly," she says. "They know that there are trains going to Poland every two hours. They don't know what town this train will bring them to, and basically it doesn't matter." For these refugees, who have fled the fighting and missile attacks, anywhere is better. Tessa Walther was in Przemysl, Poland, where she witnessed heartbreaking scenes at the border to Ukraine. Hundreds of thousands of women and children have crossed into the neighboring country, leaving their men behind. "What people really need at the moment is some time to rest, some time to process what they've seen," she said. She said volunteers here "have come from everywhere," from across Europe and as far away as India and Canada, to help, some working "for 24 hours straight." Reporting from Krakow, Poland, Max Zander met up with refugees at a youth center which is helping kids forget their troubles. He says people from all over Poland have been pitching in to help. You can keep up with DW's correspondents on Twitter at @dwnews