David Kumordzi is a composer and musician based in Ghana's capital Accra. He spends a lot of his time mobilizing people to clean up his country's beaches. The waste Kumordzi and his team collect includes plastics and discarded clothing. "Most of the waste is coming from Europe because we are connected to the Atlantic Ocean. Most of the waste we are seeing around our beaches is not from Ghana," he told DW from Accra. He blamed Europe for the tons of waste constantly being washed ashore. Environmental activists in Africa have for years raised concerns about how fast the continent is becoming a dumpsite for Europe. About 2,000 waste pickers work at the Mbeubeuss landfill outside the Senegalese capital, Dakar. With an iron hook, they scour the waste for recyclable plastic, or burn the trash to find valuable metals. The workers make their money by selling recyclable material to wholesalers. Some of them can make more than 100,000 West African CFA francs (about €150/$180) per month, according to the NGO Wiego — an income on the lower end in Senegal. But many pickers earn far less than that. To earn this living, the pickers don't only have to face brutal heat but also the stench of the landfill. Every day, they wait for trucks to dump new trash on the massive mountain of garbage in the middle of the site. Then they start picking as fast as possible. Overall, 230 trucks bring about 1,300 tons of waste to the landfill site every day. The trash also attracts cattle and birds, who wander the 114-hectare site (280-acre) to scavenge for food. Pape Ndiaye, spokesman for the waste pickers association, says it's becoming increasingly hard to make a living at Mbeubeuss. Besides the competition, there is also the problem of stagnating wholesale prices for the waste. Though the pickers are providing an environmental service by helping recycle, they "are always the losers," he told news agency Agence France-Presse. Mbeubeuss is known as a major environmental hazard. When the workers burn the waste, toxic smoke wafts through the entire dump site, reaching surrounding residential areas. A lake on the outskirts of the landfill has turned red from the pollution. But after neglecting Mbeubeuss for decades, the Senegalese government has now decided to close the open-air landfill. In 2025, it will be turned into a waste separation center. For the pickers, that will mark the end of their livelihood. Author: John Wessels (Photos), Beatrice Christofaro (Text) The continent receives an almost continuous stream of incoming containers filled with discarded items — from electronic waste to used clothing. It's not just a nuisance, it also poses a threat to both human health and the environment. West Africa's hub for used clothing from abroad is Accra's Kantamanto Market. Piles of imported clothes are sorted by traders looking for quality items but there are usually more rags than riches. Every week, about 15 million individual items of used clothing arrive in Ghana, according to the Or Foundation, a human rights and environmental NGO from the United States.  Forty percent of these items end up discarded due to their poor quality. They find their way to landfills from where they are often washed into the ocean. Liz Ricketts, the co-founder of the Or Foundation, told DW that some of the clothes are just trash from households in Europe. "Six percent of the clothing that comes in [to Africa] is already trash and that number has actually gone up from what we have found out previously — and that could be a shirt that somebody painted their house in and they wiped their hands all over, and then they end up over here [in Ghana]," Ricketts lamented. She said that some of the items were intentionally destroyed and should never have ended up in Africa. Plastic is lightweight, durable — and wildly popular. We've produced 8.3 billion metric tons of the material since mass production began in the 1950s. Because it doesn't easily biodegrade, much of what we've made now lives in landfills like this one on Nairobi's outskirts. Rubbish pickers there hunt for recyclable plastics to earn a living. But a lot of plastic also ends up in the ocean ... Much plastic enters marine habitats through rivers like, the Yangtze, the Indus, the Ganges, Pearl River, and the Mekong. These rivers run through highly populated areas with a lack of adequate waste disposal infrastructure. Here, a fisherman in the Philippines removes a fish and crab trap from plastic-filled waters. Some animals have found uses for plastic waste. This swan nested in garbage on a Copenhagen lake that is popular with tourists. Her cygnets hatched surrounded by waste. It's not the best start to life. But for some animals the consequences are much worse ... Although plastic is highly durable and can be used for products with a long lifespan, such as furniture and piping, about 50 percent goes to disposable products, including single-use cutlery and six pack rings that end up in the natural environment. Animals, like this penguin, are in danger of becoming entangled and dying as a result. Other animals mistake the material for food. This albatross chick was found dead on Sand Island in Hawaii with multiple pieces of plastic in its stomach. According to one study of 34 seabird species in northern Europe, Russia, Iceland, Svalbard, the Faroe Islands, Scandinavia and Greenland, 74 percent had ingested plastic. Eating the material can lead to organ damage and blockages in the gut. Even larger animals aren't immune to the effects of consuming plastic. This whale was found struggling to breathe and swim in a Thai canal. As rescuers attempted to save the animal, it vomited five plastic bags and later died. During the necropsy, vets found 80 shopping bags and other plastic garbage had clogged up the whale's stomach, so the marine creature could no longer digest nutritious food. We're well aware of the large pieces of plastic bobbing on the ocean's surface, as is pictured here off the Hawaiian coast. But did you know, trillions of tiny particles less than 5 millimeters in diameter are also floating around in there? These particles end up in the food chain. Sea plankton, which are an important source of food for fish and other marine animals, have been filmed eating them. Tentative measures to cut down on disposable plastic have already been taken in some African countries with bans on plastic bags, while the European Union is looking into prohibiting single-use plastic products. But if current trends continue, scientists believe there will be 12 billion metric tons of plastic on the planet by 2050. Author: Jennifer Collins Many African countries — such as Nigeria, Zimbabwe, Ghana, Republic of Benin, among others — receive huge containers filled with used electronic devices such as phones, kitchen appliances and even automobiles that are no longer road worthy for European streets. The cars — often in disrepair — have frequently been involved in ghastly accidents in Europe before being shipped to Africa. Most items that land here have been rejected as unusable in Europe but are sent to Africa with the excuse that they are somehow useful to the people there. According to a UN report, the world produced over 53 million tons of electronic waste in 2019 alone — up by 21% in just five years. The UN's Global E-waste Monitor 2020 has also predicted that global e-waste — discarded products with a battery or plug — will reach 74 metric tons by 2030; almost a doubling of e-waste in just 16 years. The trend makes e-waste the world's fastest-growing domestic waste stream, one fueled mainly by the higher consumption rates of electric and electronic equipment, their short life cycles, and the fact that they are not made to be repaired. E-waste can be highly toxic and damaging to people's health and although Africa is not necessarily responsible it ends up on the continent anyhow — especially in West Africa. African environmental expert Nnimmo Bassey spoke with DW from Nigeria, saying, "the trend is not just worrying but consistent with what has been going on for a long time." Bassey said Africa is becoming a dumpsite for all kinds of waste because the rest of the world is rejecting the West's garbage. "Other nations are getting more conscious about waste in their territories and they are rejecting toxic waste from polluting countries and suddenly Africa has become an attractive location," he said. For Bassey, Africa lacks strong laws that deal with the shipping of waste from the West into its territories. "Our politicians, our governments are not taking a serious position on this phenomenon because they are also probably looking for payments for toxic waste to be dumped on the continent," Bassey explained. Ghana's Agbogbloshie enclave is notorious for its toxic waste pollution — largely from electronic waste. Young Ghanaians risk their health to extract aluminium and copper among others items from the waste products. Bassey said Africa is already suffering from high levels of pollution from the e-waste menace as it "experiences the unprecedented impact of global warming, adding to that is pollution from the extractive industry." The UN's Sustainable Development Goals as relate to the environment are aimed at getting the world to work hard at reducing the impact of climate change. Africa is already experiencing the drastic effects of climate change and with many of its countries becoming dumpsites for Europe, analysts fear the continent will not be able to meet its targets. "You cannot have a clean environment when you are accepting waste to be dumped in your environment, so clearly those targets of cleanliness cannot be met," Bassey said. "The Fragile Paradise" is an exhibition of award-winning photographs and video installations showing how humans have impacted the environment — and the climate — over millennia. Its highlight is a 20-meter sculpture of the Earth onto which 3D high-resolution satellite images are projected. The view from space highlights not only the beauty of the blue planet — but also its vulnerability. The exhibition makes clear that the paradise that is Earth is threatened by humans, whose devastating impact on flora and fauna has marked a new era: the Anthropocene. The littering of plastics into the oceans, as reflected in this photo, is just one consequence. Another side effect is the consumption of nonbiodegradable microplastic particles by marine animals — and also humans. As the planet warms and ice melts, polar bears habitats are under threat. Off Alaska and in northwestern Canada, the number of polar bears has declined by about 40% since the beginning of the century. Polar bears use sea ice to hunt from. As the seals that they eat decline along with the ice, polar bears could be extinct by the end of this century. Human-induced global heating is causing heavier rain and flooding on the one hand, and more extreme drought on the other. Every year, 12 million hectares of fertile land are lost to desertification — an area the size of Bulgaria. The consequences are fatal: In 2019, the lives of 250 million people were threatened by desertification, despite the 25-year-old UN Convention to Combat Desertification. Rainforests are considered the world's "air conditioner." They are also the most biodiverse ecosystems on Earth — the Amazon rainforest alone is home to around 40,000 plant and nearly 1,300 bird species. But according to WWF, 43 million hectares of tropical rainforest have been destroyed in recent years. The habitat for threatened species, such as the orangutan, is becoming increasingly scarce. Also on display is an image of the famous sardine run. Huge schools of the fish leave their homes in the waters of South Africa, and head northeast to spawn. For predators such as sharks, dolphins and seabirds, they are a ready meal. Such images illustrate the wonders of the Earth in "The Fragile Paradise" exhibition, which runs through December 30, 2022. Author: Sabine Oelze, Bettina Baumann For many environmental activists it seems clear that Europe should compensate African countries for the waste it dumps on the continent. Such compensation, according to campaigners like Kumordzi, should be channelled into making Africa safer for its people. He suggested, "people that are not contributing towards protecting our environment must make budget provisions for that. Any company in Europe that is producing waste — plastics, electronic waste and clothing must source funding into African countries." Bassey said Europe cannot deny responsibility for the level of waste it is generating and shipping to Africa. "They [European countries] can't deny" being responsible for the waste found on the African continent," declares Bassey. Each nation must begin to own their waste, he says. "Each nation must take care of their waste. Consume less, produce less waste and when you produce the waste, recycle it or take care of that waste on your own territories," Bassey said. "It is criminal for any country to dump toxic waste in another territory, because they clearly know the health implications." It appears this menace can only be resolved by the countries producing the waste and the African nations accepting it. But the continent — and the world — is running out of time. Edited by: Keith Walker The first goal calls for the eradication of poverty "in all its forms everywhere". This is an extension of the old Millennium goal that set out to halve extreme poverty by 2015. Opinions are divided on the feasibility of the target. According to the UN’s Food and Agriculture Organization, there are 800 million people in the world who don't have enough to eat. Sustainable agriculture, small-scale farming and rural development have all been cited as factors that could contribute to wiping out malnutrition by 2030. Every five seconds, an infant dies. Worldwide 6.6 million children under five die every year. And almost 300,000 women die during pregnancy and childbirth. Child and maternal mortality could be prevented through simple measures. By 2030, everyone should have access to health care, affordable medicines and vaccines. Whether a girl or a boy, rich or poor – by 2030 every child should have access to a school education that gives them an opportunity to have a career in the future. Men and women should have equal educational opportunities regardless of their ethnic or social background and regardless of any disabilities. Women should be able to equally participate in public and political life. Violence and forced marriage should be a thing of the past and all women should have access to contraceptives and family planning services - a controversial point in some religious circles. Almost 750 million people have no access to clean drinking water, and one billion people lack access to sanitation, according to UN estimates. By 2030, safe and affordable drinking water and sanitation should be available to everyone. Water resources should be sustainable and the ecosystem protected. By 2030, everyone should have access to electricity and other forms of energy, preferably from renewable sources. Global energy efficiency should be doubled and infrastructure constructed – particularly in the poorest countries. There are around 1.3 billion people that still live without access to electricity. Fair and social working conditions worldwide and job opportunities for young people in a sustainable global economy. Goal eight of the Sustainable Development Goals applies both to industrialized and developing countries and also includes an end to child labor and compliance with the international labor standards of the International Labour Organization (ILO). Better infrastructure to promote economic development – something everyone could benefit from. But industrialization should be socially and environmentally sustainable, create more and better jobs and encourage innovation. This would contribute to sustainable and social justice. One percent of the world’s population generates more than half of global economic growth, according to the UN. The gap between rich and poor is continuing to grow. International development policy should help the poorest half of the population living in the poorest countries in the world. Human and environmentally-friendly living spaces with affordable housing should be a feature of every city in the world. These urban centers should also be more sustainable and green, particularly in developing countries, which should receive support to make them more resistant against climate-related natural disasters. Recycling, reuse of resources, mitigation of waste, particularly with regards to food production and by consumers: everyone has a responsibility for this. Resources should be used in a way that is both ecologically and socially sustainable and fossil fuel subsidies should be phased out. A global agreement on measures to mitigate and adapt to climate change is a necessity. Developed nations should help poorer countries with technological and financial means to achieve this. At the same time they should work to massively reduce their own emissions. The ecosystems that make up the world’s oceans are on the verge of collapse and swift action is needed. By 2020, measures should be taken to prevent overfishing, destruction of coastal areas and marine biodiversity. The aim by 2025 is to significantly reduce pollution caused by garbage and over-fertilization. UN member states will be given five years to put a stop to extensive environmental degradation of watersheds, forests and biodiversity. By 2020, land, forests and water resources should be better protected and use of natural resources fundamentally changed. Everyone should be equal before the law. National institutions and international bodies need to work together to do more to prevent violence, terror, corruption and organized crime. By 2030, everyone should have the right to a legal identity and a birth certificate. Developed countries should set aside 0.7 percent of their gross national income (GNI) to support developing countries, a target that was already part of the Millennium Development Goals. Currently in Germany only 0.39 percent of the GNI is set aside for development aid. Only five countries have reached 0.7 percent so far: Norway, Denmark, Luxembourg, Sweden and the UK. Author: Helle Jeppesen/lo  