The poisonous nerve gas sarin is so potent that a tiny amount ― less than a grain of salt if it were a solid ― is enough to kill you. Sarin, which is stored as a liquid, not only can be inhaled, but also absorbed through the skin and eyes. It is also as colorless and odorless as water when it evaporates in air, making it impossible to detect. That is why it is so difficult to determine whether the gas was used in a war. Ukraine has now accused Russia of using sarin or similar chemical weapons in Mariupol. The Azov Battalion stationed there reported that some of its units were attacked with a chemical substance on Monday evening. Affected soldiers are said to complain of pain and malfunctions of the respiratory tract and nervous system. The symptoms are the same as those suffered by victims of sarin attacks in the Syrian civil war. The information has not yet been independently confirmed. The Azov Battalion is considered to be right-wing extremist in parts, but is under the Ukrainian military leadership. Both the UK and the US announced investigations. Sarin mainly affects the body's autonomous nervous system, the involuntary muscles that control functions such as digestion, perspiration and salivation, as well as blinking, breathing or moving your arm. "You'll find it extremely difficult to breathe because your brain will be telling your lungs to work in a normal way, but the message is getting interfered with and eventually you stop breathing," says organic chemist Rob Stockman of Nottingham University. The signal to breathe, for example, is sent by nerve cells to muscle cells by chemical messengers called neurotransmitters. After the message has been sent, the neurotransmitter acetylcholine has done its job and is broken down by an enzyme. The byproducts are choline, which is recycled, and acetic acid, which reacts with water to become vinegar before being excreted. Nerve agents such as sarin disrupt this process by blocking the work of the regulatory enzyme acetylcholinesterase, which is found at all nerve junctions. Stockman calls this enzyme the "Pac-Man" molecule. "This Pac-Man molecule comes along and snips things in half [into choline and acetic acid]," says Stockman. "If you stop that [enzyme from functioning], you'll always have a very large level of neurotransmitters in the junction, so you'll have a constant 'on' switch for that muscle. The muscle will contract constantly. If it's your arm, it means you can't move it, no matter what your brain is sending in electrical signals down the wires. At the junction with the muscle, that signal's not getting through." Stockman says the nervous system is like a stereo system that sends out electrical impulses in the form of music. Similarly, human nerve cells release neurotransmitters that tell a muscle cell what to do. If the chemical message tells the eye to release tears and sarin is inhibiting the Pac-Man molecule, the eye will keep producing a non-stop flow of tears due to a build-up of acetylcholine. "Obviously, if you're telling the muscle to move, you want to stop it at some point," Stockman says. After the chemical weapons attack in Syria in 2013, UN inspectors collected samples around Damascus Sarin is fatal when this constant "on" switch affects the diaphragm controlling the lungs. The nerve cells keep firing acetylcholine, which tells the muscle cells to breath in one direction only. The act of always breathing in, but not out, for example, can lead to death by asphyxiation. If your exposure is relatively mild, it's possible to survive a chemical attack. One antidote is Pralidoxime, which works by detaching sarin from the Pac-Man enzyme. This reactivates the enzyme, allowing it to resume its normal function of breaking down acetylcholine. What do you do if you don't have no access to an antidote? One first aid remedy is to breathe through a towel soaked in a glass of water mixed with one tablespoon of baking soda. The alkaline solution degrades sarin. "The more alkaline the water the better," Stockman says. Homemade sarin was released in a Tokyo subway attack in 1995, killing 13 people Environmental factors can influence the effects of sarin. And sarin can have long-lasting effects on the environment, too. "The main problem with chemical weapons is that they're very difficult to control ― they are subject to wind, and the delivery is much more difficult than high explosives," says Martyn Poliakoff, research chemist at University of Nottingham. "You don't know where exactly it's going to go. [Chemical weapons] often persist in the environment, so they can kill other people. It is this anonymous way of killing random people that everyone finds so repugnant." If the temperature outside is below 20 degree Celsius (68 degrees Fahrenheit), the amount of time that sarin lingers in the air ranges from two to 20 days. At 25 degrees Celsius (77 degrees Fahrenheit), that lifetime is halved, to between one and 10 days. Under cold weather conditions, at 0 degrees Celsius (32 degrees Fahrenheit) for example, nerve gases can remain in the atmosphere for as long as a year. "If it is cooler," says Stockman, "you get less thermal cycling of gas in the air ― the cooler air sits closer to the ground. But the other thing is the environmental lifetime of sarin. The hotter the temperatures, the quicker it reacts to moisture in the atmosphere and the quicker it will degrade and it will naturally react with water in the atmosphere." Forty veils of suspected Sarin gas allegedly found in an house in Fallujah, Iraq, in 2004 Other climatic conditions help degrade sarin, such as humidity and the amount of sunlight. It's possible that sarin and other nerve gases have only seldom been deployed as a weapon of war because the outfall is so unpredictable. It was invented by the Nazis in the late 1930s. But they never deployed the nerve gases on the battlefields, or in the extermination camps, where Zyklon-B, a cyanide gas, was used. Chemical weapons have made the headlines before Syria, where the Assad regime used them in several attacks ― with the help of the Russian army ― to kill its own citizens. In Japan, a terrorist cult unleashed homemade sarin in a Tokyo subway attack that killed a dozen people in 1995. In the 1980s, Saddam Hussein deployed nerve agents in the Iran-Iraq war, killing thousands of civilians. Over the past week, tens of thousands of people have been daily fleeing the devastated city of Mariupol in seemingly endless numbers. Since the beginning of the war, the strategically important southern port city has faced heavy bombardment and missile strikes, including on civilian targets. According to Russian figures, 130,000 of the approximately 440,000 inhabitants remain in the city. After almost four weeks of shelling, the besieged city has become almost uninhabitable. According to the city administration, 80% of the apartments have been destroyed. Many images from Mariupol show ruined or burned-out residential buildings, like this image from the Russian state news agency, Tass. Russia's attacks on Ukrainian civilians have prompted several Western politicians to speak of Russian "war crimes." Among them are German Foreign Minister Annalena Baerbock and European Union foreign affairs envoy Josep Borrell. Borrell said Russia was destroying Ukraine without any respect for the rules of war. Russia claims that it is attacking only strategic and military targets. It has blamed a Ukrainian militia unit called the Azov Batallion, which includes far-right nationalist extremists, for the bombing of the Mariupol theater. Hundreds of people survived the attack, having sheltered in the air-raid bunker underneath the theater, pictured in ruins above. Pro-Russian separatists, who also control the neighboring Donetsk region in eastern Ukraine, are monitoring escape routes. They are only open to unarmed civilians who want to leave the besieged city. This photo, released by the Russian state agency Tass, claims to show people evacuated from Mariupol in a makeshift camp in Russian-occupied Donetsk. Russia says it wants to provide protection for Ukrainian refugees. The Mariupol City Council, on the other hand, accuses Russia of allowing Russian separatists to forcibly take thousands of Ukrainians to Russia. Many residents have fled to the city of Zaporizhzhia, where the injured are being treated. The bombardment of hospitals in Mariupol has made accessing emergency medical aid nearly impossible. Two weeks ago, a brief fire at Europe's largest nuclear power plant in Zaporizhzhia after a missile strike raised alarm bells. Apart from that, the city of 750,000 has so far largely escaped the fighting. This teenager, who fled from Mariupol to Lviv in western Ukraine, is being received by his mother. The Russian army has already shelled Lviv as well. For many refugees, Lviv has become a final stopover on the way to neighboring European countries. Mariupol isn't the only Ukrainian city to be pummeled by Russian attacks. In northern and eastern Ukraine, rockets and artillery shells have continued hitting major cities such as Sumy, Kharkiv and the capital Kyiv. This photo shows the remains of a Kyiv shopping center after it was targeted by Russian strikes. Four people were killed in the attack, according to local media. On Sunday, Russia had given Ukraine an ultimatum to surrender Mariupol by Monday afternoon. Ukraine rejected the demand. Instead, thousands of civilians again left the city, which the Ukrainian government says is under continuous fire. According to Russian separatist leader Denis Pushilin, the battle for Mariupol could last weeks longer. Author: Jan D. Walter Update: This article was originally published in October 2013. We updated it on April 12, 2022 with information from the Ukraine war.