Benjamin Cadet stands among his plants in a white polo shirt bearing his company logo. He dons surgeon's gloves and handles the flowers carefully. They are full of pollen — ripe for the picking. Cadet smiles satisfactorily. The Ugandan entrepreneur and former member of parliament is the CEO of the only company licensed to grow and export cannabis legally in the East African country. The cannabis plantation, located in Uganda's mighty Rwenzori Mountains, extends over three hectares in the country's west, almost directly on the Equator. More than 40,000 cannabis plants thrive in greenhouses under strict hygienic conditions. They are destined for export to Europe. "When we developed the idea in 2011, we tried different strains. The first strain came from the Netherlands," Cadet told DW. "But we lacked the finances and contacts in the world market. So that was when we started contacting potential partners." Benjamin Cadet stands in the greenhouse in front of his cannabis plants, which have the green light for legal export Since the beginning of January, airtight 10-gram packets of Ugandan cannabis, conforming with the German pharmacopoeia — the official guidelines regarding quality assurance — have been on sale in German pharmacies. While company founder Nir Sosinsky was building his first greenhouses in southern Israel, he wanted to expand and open up new cannabis farms worldwide. He learned of the only cultivation license in Uganda through business contacts and subsequently invited Cadet to Israel. They then traveled together in Uganda and found the perfect growing conditions for cannabis near the town of Kasese at the foot of the Rwenzori Mountains. "It's like God's garden — in the middle of a green area, surrounded by the mountains around Kasese," Sosinsky said, explaining that the location on the equator was crucial for cannabis cultivation. "Cannabis is a photoperiod plant, which means to flower, it needs 12 hours of sunshine and exactly 12 hours of darkness," he told DW. Sosinsky has since invested over €5 million ($5.6 million) in Uganda. First, he set up a power supply and hired more than 100 workers from the surrounding communities. At the same time, he started looking for new customers, especially in Europe. But the European import regulations proved to be an enormous hurdle. Cannabis requires 12 hours of daylight and 12 hours of darkness to grow properly That's where Patrick Hoffmann stepped in to help. In 2015, the 43-year-old political scientist became one of the first people to legally import cannabis for medicinal purposes into Germany. At the time, there were just a few dozen German patients who were allowed to receive a prescription. Cannabis from the Netherlandsmet this small demand. In 2016, however, Germany's Federal Administrative Court ruled that patients had a right to access cannabis. As a result, the number of medical practises issuing these prescriptions has increased tenfold in the past three years. But this has also raised the issue of supply bottlenecks. In its coalition agreement, the new German government announced that it would allow "controlled dispensing of cannabis to adults for consumption purposes in licensed stores." For Hoffmann, it is clear that the current supply network soon won't be enough. But he has an idea: Worldwide, there are more than 25,000 cannabis cultivation licenses, but only about 20 licenses for importation into the German market. One of them was held by the medical cannabis company Cantourage, which Hoffmann co-founded in 2019. Cadet's cannabis could soon become a legal product in Germany "Why not make an offer to these 25,000 cultivation companies that they supply us with the raw material and we turn it into the certified drug in Germany?" he said. Such a move would save foreign companies the time-consuming process of obtaining an import license into Germany. Cantourage now sources cannabis from 19 partners in 14 countries, including traditional production countries such as Canada and Israel, and primarily from Africa: South Africa, Lesotho, Zimbabwe, and Uganda. For Hoffmann, one thing is certain: There will be a strong demand for medicinal cannabis and even stimulants in the coming years, both in Germany and in the European Union. That's where Africa plays a crucial role. "Africa has a responsibility to play a leading role in the cultivation and processing of cannabis," said Hoffmann. "If we also want to protect the environment at the same time, we can't cultivate these large quantities indoors," he explained. Instead, these need to be cultivated under favorable conditions, and "the best place to do it is near the equator." This is the hemp plant of legend. Intoxicating cannabis can be obtained from certain varieties, so its cultivation is strictly regulated in Germany. Unlike 200 years ago, hemp plants in the country are completely out of the public eye, paving the way for myths generated from the camps of supporters and opponents alike. The use of hemp as an intoxicant has a comparatively recent history in Europe. French soldiers, who took home hashish made from the resin of female cannabis plants from Napoleon's Egyptian campaign in 1798, played a key role in spreading it. While Napoleon banned hashish in Egypt, it became popular in Paris. Since the 1990s, the UK has been discussing the legalization of cannabis. There was a rumor at the time that Queen Victoria was prescribed cannabis for menstrual cramps. The only evidence: in 1890, her personal physician John Russel Reynolds noted in a medical journal the "great value" of cannabis in treating an array of conditions. Urban legend has it that the American Declaration of Independence was written on paper made from hemp. That's not quite true: the document, vacuum-sealed and behind thick panes of glass at the National Archives in Washington, DC, was written on parchment paper. The first two drafts, on the other hand, were probably written on hemp paper. "Reefer Madness," originally financed by a church group under the title "Tell Your Childen," was a 1936 US propaganda movie that depicted young people as immediately addicted, violent and crazy after consuming cannabis. With its almost comical exaggerations and misconceptions, the film is a historical testimony to the fear-mongering of that era. Back then, Harry Anslinger, the racist head of the US Drug Enforcement Administration, had been fighting for prohibition since the 1930s. Allegedly, Mexicans and African Americans in particular consumed cannabis, but Anslinger wasn't concerned about their health. Weed makes Black people think they're as good as white people, he once said. For over 30 years, he set the tone of US drug policies. Other cultures are perhaps more open about the intoxicating effects of cannabis. Sacred texts about the Hindu deity Shiva state that he renounced all life's pleasures — except cannabis. Contrary to often repeated claims, cannabis use can very well be addictive. Author: Matthias Beckonert This article was translated from German