This article was last updated at 11:49 UTC Voter turnout in the first round of the French presidential election on Sunday was 25.5% by midday (1000 GMT), the Interior Ministry said. It's below the 28.5% participation rate in the 2017 poll. Polling stations across mainland France opened at 8 a.m. (0600 GMT) and will close at 1800 GMT, when the first exit polls will be published. Such polls are usually very reliable in France. Also, French law mandates media outlets to observe "electoral silence," meaning they're prohibited from publishing poll numbers or projections until the voting ends. In addition, all the presidential candidates are barred from campaigning from Friday midnight until 1800 GMT today. Macron casts his ballot in the first round of the presidential election Incumbent President Emmanuel Macron: Macron is promising "full employment," after the French jobless rate fell during his term to its lowest level in decades. He also wants to increase the minimum monthly pension and raise the retirement age from 62 to 65, a proposal that appears to be deeply unpopular with a majority of French voters. Macron has pledged to bolster France's nuclear program by building six new-generation reactors, while reinforcing efforts to produce more solar and wind power. He has also vowed to boost French military capabilities in light of the growing security threats, particularly after Russia's war in Ukraine. Macron's main rival, Far-right leader Marine Le Pen: Marine Le Pen focused largely on issues such as the rising cost of living and immigration during her campaign. She wants to cut taxes on energy and essential goods in a bid to combat price rises. She has vowed to maintain the minimum retirement age at 62 and raise the minimum pension. When it comes to energy policy, Le Pen wants to dismantle windfarms and invest in nuclear and hydro power. On immigration, Le Pen is proposing an end to family reunification policies and tightened restrictions on who can receive French social benefits. She also promised a law banning the wearing of headscarves in all public places. Far-left leader Jean Luc Melenchon: Jean Luc Melenchon promises to raise France's minimum wage and minimum pension, and lower the retirement age to 60. With strong emphasis on social justice, he wants to re-establish a wealth tax and lock in energy and food prices. Unlike Macron and Le Pen, Melenchon wants to phase out nuclear power and aim for 100% renewable energy instead. French voters will have to either vote in person or by proxy, a the country has no mail-voting established and electronic machines are not widely used. But for those who can't  physically make it to the ballot, they can authorize someone else to vote for them. This process is done through a form that the indivdidual fills out and brings to a French police station, well ahead of the election. A person can be the proxy of no more than one voter living in France and potentially one additional person living abroad. Some 7% of votes were cast by proxy in the last presidential election five years ago. Surveys predict a weak turnout with as many as 30% of voters expected to stay home Even though the pandemic is still ongoing, France has not adopted mail-in voting, which was banned in 1975 amid fears of potential fraud. Macron's centrist government tried to pass an amendment to allow early voting by machine to encourage electoral, amid the COVID-19 pandemic. But the Senate, led by a conservative majority, rejected the measure. France experimented with electronic voting in 2002, but the purchase of new machines has been frozen since 2008 due to security concerns. Only a few dozen towns still use them. The stakes of the election are high for French President Emmanuel Macron. Until just weeks ago, opinion polls pointed to an easy win for Macron. But his late entry into campaigning and his focus on an unpopular plan to raise the retirement age, have dented the president's ratings. The French are also increasingly concerned over steep rises in food and energy prices, which have become dominant election themes. If Macron wins the election, he would be the first French president since Jacques Chirac in 2002 to win a second term. The gap between Emmanuel Macron and Marine Le Pen narrowed considerably in opinion polls over the past few weeks As many as 12 candidates, including President Emmanuel Macron, from across the French political spectrum are competing in the first round of the election. Polls predict that Macron and far-right leader Marine Le Pen will lead the pack in the first round and advance to the second round. And far-left leader Jean-Luc Melenchon is likely to finish in third place. The candidates of France's traditional parties, the right-wing Republicans and the Socialists on the left, are expected to be ejected in the first round. The election outcome will be viewed closely across Europe, as it will have an impact not only on France's political landscape but also on the EU in the coming years. Macron is seen as a pro-European Union centrist, but his main challengers Le Pen and the far-left leader Melenchon are known for being euroskeptics. The French are casting their ballots in the first round of the presidential election on Sunday. About 48.7 million voters are registered across France to vote in this election. The top two candidates from the first round on Sunday will qualify for the runoff due to be held on August 24. Surveys predict a weak turnout with as many as 30% of voters expected to stay home. sri/jcg (AFP, AP, Reuters, dpa)