This article was last updated at 09:54 GMT/UTC. The prime ministers of Spain and Poland have called the killings of civilians in the towns around Kyiv "genocide. Polish leader Mateusz Morawiecki called for an international investigation into the claims made by Ukraine that Russian soldiers executed, raped and tortured civilians in the towns of Bucha and Irpin. "These bloody massacres committed by Russians, by Russian soldiers, deserve to be called what they are. This is genocide and it must be judged," Morawiecki told reporters. Spanish Prime Minister Pedro Sanchez also called for an investigation into Russian war crimes. "We will do everything to ensure that those who have perpetrated these war crimes do not go unpunished, and therefore appear before the courts... to deal with these alleged cases of (crimes against) humanity, war crimes and why not say it too, genocide," he said. The European Union condemned the "atrocities" that have been reported in several towns that had been occupied by Russian forces and said it is planning on introducing new sanctions against Moscow. The EU's foreign policy chief Josep Borrell said on Monday that "the Russian authorities are responsible for these atrocities, committed while they had effective control of the area. They are subject to the international law of occupation." He added that the "haunting images of large numbers of civilian deaths and casualties, as well as destruction of civilian infrastructures show the true face of the brutal war of aggression Russia is waging against Ukraine and its people." As a result, the bloc "will advance, as a matter of urgency, work on further sanctions against Russia." Alyona Synenko, a Ukrainian working with the International Committee of the Red Cross (ICRC), spoke with DW about alleged atrocities committed by Russian soldiers in the Kyiv suburbs of Bucha and Irpin. "The images that are circulating and that we saw are simply shocking. And it is at the core of the international humanitarian law that civilians and civilian infrastructure must be protected," she said of accusations that Moscow's troops had executed civilians and raped local women. "If we don't work independently, we simply don't work because neutrality and independence are at the core principles of what we do that allow us to document violations of international humanitarian law and speak with warring parties to prevent those violations from happening," she said of the ICRC's need to work independently and in a non-partisan way. "And this is what we are striving to do in Ukraine as well. Of course, the access has been extremely difficult to many places because of the heavy fighting, heavy shelling," she added. "We've seen images of utter desolation and destruction. Entire civilian neighborhoods are destroyed beyond repair. Streets are littered with unexploded remnants of war. There are still places that are heavily mined and are extremely dangerous to get to, which is a huge problem for us because we are trying to get more supplies into these places. And unfortunately, right now it is impossible to send trucks." The Ukrainian ambassador to Germany, Andriy Melnyk, called on the German government to reconsider its stance on sanctions against Russian fossil fuels following the accusations of mass killings in areas formerly occupied by Russian forces. He addressed the German government in a tweet, saying: "I recommend you read these reports about raped and murdered children in Bucha and Irpin before you start explaining to us again why an immediate embargo on Russian gas, oil and coal isn't feasible." "How will Germany live with this?" he added. The Ukrainian newspaper Ukrayinska Pravda reported that the number of bodies found in the city of Bucha has risen to 330-340, citing a local funeral service. A worker told the paper that they did not have complete lists of those allegedly killed by the Russian troops, adding that a search for further victims is ongoing. French President Emmanuel Macron said on Monday that he was in favor of introducing new sanctions against Russia after Ukraine said that Russian forces had carried out mass killings of civilians in areas around Kyiv. Macron told French Inter radio that there were "clear indications" of Russian war crimes in Bucha. "What happened in Bucha demands a new round of sanctions and very clear measures," he added. He also called for the individuals responsible to be held accountable. "International justice must take care of this and those who committed these crimes will have to answer for them," Macron said. He joined other European officials in tabling again the possibility of imposing sanctions against Russian fossil fuel exports. The EU is broadly dependent on Russian oil and gas while the Russian economy is dependent on its fossil fuel exports. Monday's intelligence update from the UK's Ministry of Defence stated that Russia is consolidating its position in the eastern Donbas region of Ukraine — parts of which have been under the control of Russian-backed separatists since 2014. The update also said that further Russian forces, as well as the soldiers from the Wagner mercenary group with links to Moscow, were being deployed in the eastern region. US Secretary of State Antony Blinken said Washington strongly condemns the killings of civilians in Bucha and other areas across Ukraine. In a statement posted to Twitter, Blinken described the killings as "apparent atrocities" that were committed by "Kremlin forces." "We are pursuing accountability using every tool available, documenting and sharing information to hold accountable those responsible," the top US diplomat said. Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy appeared in a pre-recorded message at the Grammy Awards urging viewers to "support us in any way you can. Any, but not silence." "On our land we are fighting Russia, which brings horrible silence with its bombs. The dead silence. Fill the silence with your music. Fill it today to tell our story," he added. John Legend then performed a new song, "free" with Ukrainian artists Mika Newton, Siuzanna Iglidan and poet Lyuba Yakimchuk. The Recording Academy also urged viewers to donate to help Ukraine and to join Global Citizen's #StandUpForUkraine campaign. Zelenskyy calls for support at the Grammy Awards Dutch journalist Robert Dulmers was expelled from Ukraine after posting a video of a Russian missile attack on an oil refinery and fuel storage facility in Odesa. He said Ukrainian authorities told him he revealed state secrets by posting images of the Russian missile impact in the key port city. Dulmers has been reporting from Ukraine for the Nederlands Dagblad newspaper since the start of the war. After being detained by unidentified operatives, he was driven to the Moldovian border and was told he was banned from entering Ukraine for ten years. The Dutch Journalists' Assocation NVJ appealed to Ukrainian authorities to reconsider the decision, Dutch public broadcaster NOS reported Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy fears that "more terrible things could unfold" and "even more deaths and abuses" could emerge from Ukrainian regions still under Russian control. "Hundreds of people were killed. Tortured, executed civilians. Corpses on the street," he said in a Sunday evening video message. Zelenskyy accused Russians of committing atrocities against unarmed civilians in Bucha and other Ukrainian cities. The Ukrainian leader also announced the creation of a special agency to investigate and litigate crimes committed by Russian forces. "There is a common responsibility. For these killings, for this torture, for arms blown off by blasts... For the shots in the back of the head," Zelenskyy added. Images from Bucha near Kyiv, where civilian corpses were found on the streets and mass graves were found after Russia's withdrawal, have prompted international outrage. A mass grave has been discovered in the town of Bucha Zelensky also took aim at former German Chancellor Angela Merkel and France's former President Nicolas Sarkozy, claiming their Russia policy contributed to the current crisis. "I invite Mrs. Merkel and Mr. Sarkozy to visit Bucha and see what a policy of concessions for 14 years has led to," he said. In 2008, Germany, France and smaller NATO states withstood pressure from the US to offer Ukraine membership of the alliance, saying it wasn't ready and Russia could be antagonized. New satellite imagery of Bucha revealed a 45-foot (13.71 meter) trench at a site where a mass grave has been identified, a US satellite data firm says. The pictures from Maxar Technologies showed trench dug into the grounds of the Church of St. Andrew and Pyervozvannoho All Saints. The images were captured on 31 March, but the company said the first signs of excavation for a mass grave were seen on March 10. Bodies were first buried in the grave on the church grounds in the first days of the war, residents told CNN. Ukraine accused Russian forces of carrying out a "massacre" in the town on the outskirts of Kyiv. Russia requested the UN Security Council to convene to discuss the accusations. Western leaders have condemned the killings of unarmed civilians in Bucha and the surrounding areas of Kyiv. Ukraine's Prosecutor General Iryna Venediktova said prosecutors investigating possible war crimes carried out by Russian troops. Ukrainian forces found 410 bodies in towns near Kyiv over the weekend. A leading rights group, Human Rights Watch told DW it had documented what it described as "apparent war crimes." Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky denounced what he called Russia's attempt to eliminate "the whole nation" during an appearance Sunday on US broadcaster CBS, saying: "This is genocide." German Chancellor Olaf Scholz said Western allies would agree on further sanctions on Russia in the coming days over its invasion of Ukraine and the "atrocities" committed by Russian troops in a town near Kyiv. German Defense Minister Christine Lambrecht has called on the European Union to discuss a ban on Russian gas imports after reports emerged of Russian forces committing atrocities near Kyiv. Russia requested a UN Security Council session on Monday over Bucha war crime allegations. Russia described photos and videos from the town as a "staged performance," despite the first-hand verifications of the killings by journalists from several international outlets. Russian missiles also targeted key infrastructure, including a likely oil refinery, in Ukraine's southern port of Odesa. ab, lo/rs (AP, AFP, dpa, Reuters)