On Earth, the situation is dire. Every day, thousands die in Ukraine while Russia is bombing civilian as well as military targets. But in space, Russian cosmonauts work side by side with astronauts from Europe and other Western countries. This cooperation will continue when Samantha Cristoforetti takes off for the International Space Station (ISS) later this month. Cristoforetti is an astronaut with the European Space Agency (ESA) and will be launched into space along with three other crew members as part of the Minerva mission at the end of April. In a press conference about the mission on Monday, she emphasized that the conflict on the ground had no bearing on how astronauts and cosmonauts worked together in space, 400 kilometers (248 miles) above Earth. "This gives me the opportunity to reassure everyone that on the space station, the current crew is working [together] really well, and they keep on being not only colleagues but good friends on board. And I expect the same for our crew," Cristoforetti said. "As I've said many times, you have to focus on what you have in common, not what divides you when you have a mission to accomplish." Italy's first female astronaut also pointed out the importance of the ISS as an example of peaceful international cooperation during troubled times. "It's a beacon of hope, it's a beacon of peace, it's a beacon of international understanding," Cristoforetti said. "It has been so since the beginning and I think it continues to be so today." The astronauts on the Minerva mission are supposed to be launched into space on April 21 (with a backup date of April 23) from the Kennedy Space Center in Florida. Cristoforetti's crew consists of commander Kjell Lindgren, Robert Hines and Jessica Watson, all NASA astronauts. The mission's name refers to the ancient Roman goddess of wisdom, who was also a warrior and protector of the handicrafts and arts. Cristoforetti was the one to choose the name, in honor of the craftsmanship of the women and men whose hard work makes spaceflight possible. Once onboard the ISS, the Italian astronaut will be the lead of the US Orbital Segment, putting her in charge of all activities within the US, European, Japanese and Canadian modules of the space station. For Cristoforetti, Minerva will be her second stint on the ISS after an earlier mission in 2014/2015, and she is enthusiastic about her return. "I look forward to having a second experience," she said. "You're not so overwhelmed with impressions and emotions and the whole experience anymore. You can slow it down in your mind and really enjoy it. I'm very much looking forward to experiencing this as an experienced flyer and not a rookie anymore." During her mission, she will carry out experiments and research in various fields, among them one on the effects of microgravity on ovarian cells, which in the future could help with medical treatments of illnesses related to the ovaries here on Earth. During her last mission, Cristoforetti famously became the first astronaut to brew espresso in space. This time around, she is bringing olive oil to the ISS with her ― some for an experiment to see how the quality of the oil changes in space, and some simply to give her a "taste of home," she said. The astronaut, who holds a master's degree in mechanical engineering with specializations in aerospace propulsion and lightweight structures, will also work with the European Robotic Arm, which was sent to the ISS last summer. The robotic arm can handle components up to 8,000 kilograms (17,637 pounds) with 5-millimeter (0.2-inch) precision, and can be operated from inside and outside the space station. In her previous mission, Futura, Cristoforetti was at the space station from fall 2014 to spring 2015. She was in space for 200 days, which made her the female astronaut with the longest uninterrupted space mission for a while. She's also the ESA astronaut with the second-longest uninterrupted period in space, behind her fellow Italian astronaut Luca Parmitano ― who beat her by just one day. In 1975, astronauts Thomas Stafford and Deke Slayton were given "vodka tubes" during an Apollo/Soyuz linkup. Although labeled with Russian vodka brands, the tubes contained borscht (beet soup). Drinking alcohol is prohibited on the ISS — it's main ingredient, ethanol, is a volatile compound that could damage equipment. Astronauts aren't even allowed mouthwash or aftershave containing alcohol. In 1967 the US counted its first space mission fatality after an astronaut died flying a spaceplane above 50 miles. Four Soviet Union cosmonauts died in spaceflight in 1967 and 1971. And in January 1986, the Challenger space shuttle blew up 73 seconds after takeoff, killing all seven crew members. Another seven died when the Columbia shuttle exploded upon reentry into Earth's atmosphere in 2003. The original space toilet, designed in 2000, had astronauts use thigh straps to keep a tight seal between their bottoms and the toilet seat. But it didn't work so well. In 2018, NASA spent $23 million on a new vacuum-style toilet that starts sucking as soon as they sit down. Most bathroom waste is burned, but pee is recycled into drinking water. They say: "Today's coffee is tomorrow's coffee!" In 1969, at the time of the Apollo 11 flight, Neil Armstrong was the highest paid of the three astronauts on the flight — earning $27,401, which in today's terms is equivalent to about $209,122 (about €183,000). Today, NASA astronauts can earn between about $66,000 and $160,000, depending on their academic achievements and prior work experience. Microgravity takes a toll on the human body. Fluid builds in up the head and about a liter of blood is shed. That's part of the reason astronauts, like Marcos Pontes (above), often look paler upon their return to Earth. Although scientists aren't entirely sure of space travel's impact on long-term health, we do know that because of relativity, astronauts return to Earth a few milliseconds younger. Sex in space is pretty different to here on Earth. Erections and arousal are possible, but without gravity, thrusting does become a challenge, which could be limiting — depending on your modus operandi. Has it been done before? Reports are unconfirmed, but it seems likely. In 1992, married couple Mark Lee and Jan Davis joined a NASA mission shortly after getting married — an outer space honeymoon? Generally, a good night's sleep requires you to be able to stay in bed for the duration of your shut-eye. That's a little difficult in a microgravity environment — and that's where Velcro comes in. Astronauts usually use sleeping bags in small crew cabins, attached to one of the walls so they don't float around and bump into things. Here's Matthias Maurer demonstrating before his Crew-3 mission. The SpaceX Crew-3 mission took off from NASA's Kennedy Space Center in Florida on November 10 on a Crew Dragon spacecraft named Endurance, fixed on a Falcon 9 rocket. The crew are headed to the International Space Station, where they'll do spacewalks to help upgrade the station's solar panels, conduct research and try to grow plants without soil or other growth foundations. Author: Charli Shield