France will vote in a runoff presidential election between Emmanuel Macron and Marine Le Pen on Sunday. The vote will determine who will lead the European Union's second-largest economy and the bloc's only permanent UN Security Council member. Here's what you need to know: Macron and Le Pen emerged as the top two candidates from a pool of 12 in the first round on April 10, winning 27.85% and 23.15% of the vote respectively. Left-wing populist Jean-Luc Melenchon narrowly missed out, with 21.95% of the vote. As no one reached an outright majority, the top two candidates, Le Pen and Macron, progressed as the only two options in Sunday's second round. In the two weeks since, the two contenders have tried to rally the voters of their first round rivals, especially those of Melenchon. Both candidates have attempted to broaden their support, making 11th-hour changes to their platforms. Incumbent French President Emmanuel Macron, a pro-European centrist, is running for reelection. The 44-year-old is marketing himself as a stable force during a time of crisis, pointing to his leadership during the coronavirus pandemic and the Russian invasion of Ukraine. Mocked as the sun king, Macron's chief hurdle is his image as an out-of-touch elitist. His term has been marked by ups and downs. The so-called yellow-vest movement in 2018 was triggered by his business-friendly policies and tax cuts for the wealthy. Le Pen, a far-right populist from the National Rally party, has campaigned on a hard line on immigration and upholding traditional French identity, as well as helping struggling households. But she has been criticized in Europe for her 2017 stance against the EU and NATO — two major players in the response to Russia's invasion of Ukraine. She is often criticized as being cozy with autocrats. France's response to the war in Ukraine, strains on the health care system triggered by two years of the pandemic and the economy are all high among voter concerns. Tackling a surge in energy and food prices has been at the core of both campaigns. Macron has promised to raise the minimum level of pensions, increase hiring in the health sector and to prioritize gender equality and school harassment. He has also promised more tax cuts for companies, thousands more police officers and judges and to raise the retirement age to reduce the pension system's massive debt. Le Pen, 53, has pledged to hold a referendum on strict immigration controls, stipulating that residency applications can be made only outside France. She would prioritize French nationals for housing and other social services ahead of foreigners. She has also promised 25,000 new places in prison and extra police. Since the first round, she appears to have softened her divisive stance on banning the Muslim headscarf in public spaces. Le Pen's other promises include a substantial cut in taxes on fuel and electricity, and rises in pension payouts. Most polling stations close at 7 p.m. local time, but in larger cities such as Paris some voting sites close at 8 p.m. Exit polls — normally very reliable — are expected at about 6 p.m. GMT/UTC. Official results are expected the next day. Current polling puts Macron in the lead, with him polling between 53% and 56% against 44% to 47% for Le Pen. When Le Pen faced Macron in the 2017 runoff, Macron won 66% to 34%. If Macron wins, it will the first time a French president has been reelected since Jacques Chirac in 2002. Stroll along the banks of the Seine, admire the "Mona Lisa" in the Louvre, look at the Arc de Triomphe, or, as here, enjoy the view of the French capital from the Eiffel Tower: Paris offers infinite opportunities for visitors. After you finish sightseeing, you can go to a cafe in the fashionable Saint-Germain-des-Pres quarter or a bar in trendy Belleville. Fragrant lavender fields, medieval mountain villages, shimmering heat and that very special light. Provence in the summer is a celebration of the senses. Famous artists like Picasso, Chagall or Van Gogh were so taken by this special place that they chose to stay here. With some 30 million visitors every year, the south of France is the country's most popular holiday destination. The longing for sun traditionally leads to the Mediterranean in France. The Cote d'Azur stands for luxury and glamour; in the 19th century, holidays here were a privilege of the European aristocracy. Later came prominent artists and the international jet set. Today, everyone finds their favorite place between Marseille and Menton. The French part of the Alps is located in the southeast. The mountain range Mont Blanc massif attracts mountaineers from around the world. The Mont Blanc itself, at 4,810 meters (15,777 feet), is the highest peak of the Alps. The first recorded ascent to its summit in 1786 marked the birth of modern mountaineering. Today there are over 100 routes leading to the roof of France. In the southwest of France, the Pyrenees form the border to Spain. The oversize racing bikes on the Col d'Aubisque (1,709 meters/5,607 feet) pay homage to the fact that since 1951 this steep mountain pass has been part of the Tour de France cycle race. Those who manage to bike up here are really fit. Hikers can enjoy this mountain range from the Mediterranean to the Atlantic on the GR10 trail. The Loire is the longest river in France. It winds its way over 1,020 kilometers (634 miles), from the Massif Central to the Atlantic. Nowhere else in Europe will you find so many castles in such a small area: 400 chateaux line the shores of Europe's last large wild river. One of the most famous is Chateau de Chambord (picture). The Loire Valley has been a UNESCO World Heritage Site since 2000. Holidays on the Atlantic are all about the elements. The Breton coast in the far west of France has a rugged beauty, wild and windswept. The ever-changing weather is part of what makes this landscape so fascinating. After the Cote d'Azur, the Bretagne area is the second-most visited region in France. Normandy experiences the strongest tides in Europe — measuring a difference of up to 14 meters (46 feet) between high and low water marks! Only a few times every year is this island completely surrounded by water. Mont-Saint-Michel with its Benedictine monastery is one of the most visited attractions in France. It has been a UNESCO World Heritage Site since 1979. The name means "silver coast" and it refers to the Atlantic coast west of Bordeaux. Some 100 kilometers (60 miles) of fine, white sand — which shimmers silver in the sunlight — promise dream holidays. Located in the center of the coastline is Europe's tallest walkable dune, the Dune du Pilat. Its height varies from 100 to 117 meters (380 feet). It is 500 meters wide and 3 kilometers long. France makes hedonists happy. The quality of French wines sets the global benchmark. There are 14 winemaking regions, each with its own characteristics, promising a pleasurable wine tasting trip from chateau to chateau. Many premium wines come from the area around Bordeaux. There are 600 restaurants in France with at least one Michelin star. Alsace is a region which attracts many food lovers with its rich regional cuisine. To go out for a good meal here doesn't have to cost a fortune. The food traditionally is rich and the portions large. Everyone from the picky gourmet to the hungry traveler will find something to their taste here. Author: Anne Termèche aw/nm (AFP, Reuters, AP)