The North Korean state news agency on Thursday said a missile fired into the sea off the east of the Korean Peninsula was a hypersonic weapon. It's Pyongyang's second reported test of a hypersonic gliding missile to date — after one it claimed in September — and is the first  missile launch from North Korea since October. North Korea's claim of a successful hypersonic test Wednesday has yet to be independently confirmed. On Thursday, Japan's defense minister, Nobuo Kishi, told Japanese media that the missile was not hypersonic, but a "new type of ballistic missile" not launched by the North before. State news agency KCNA said the missile carried a "hypersonic gliding warhead" that "precisely hit a target 700 kilometers away." The Wednesday test "reconfirmed the flight control and stability of the missile in the active-flight stage and assessed the performance of the new lateral movement technique applied to the detached hypersonic gliding warhead," the agency said. There was no show of nuclear weaponry during the toned-down event. Civil defense units, railway ministry detachments, fire brigades, Air Koryo and detachments from the Hungnam Fertilizer Complex were exhibited. Much of the hardware, like these motorcycle sidecars, had a distinct retro and low-budget flavor. Some conventional weapons did make it into the parade. Fighter jets flying in formation above the streets, and artillery pieces hauled by tractors also made an appearance during the event. The vast majority of North Korea's sparse road network is not paved. A part of the parade's paramilitary personnel marched in orange hazmat suits with oxygen masks. North Korea claims not to have suffered a single case of COVID-19. It closed its sometimes-porous border to China early in the pandemic. The parade was aimed at a domestic audience this time. Experts say the event reflected challenges the country has faced recently, such as the pandemic and border closures, flooding, and food shortages. South Korean intelligence believe Kim has three children of his own, though even this is unconfirmed. As the anniversary struck at midnight, an exhibition of fireworks took place. Pyongyang has previously used parades as a display of military and nuclear strength. But the sort of weaponry liable to upset Seoul, the United States and the West was conspicuously absent on Thursday, with cavalry and other units at the forefront. Some speculated that this could be a sign that the reclusive nation is open to peace talks with the US and South Korea. "The successive successes in the test launches in the hypersonic missile sector have strategic significance in that they hasten a task for modernizing strategic armed force of the state," the KCNA report said. Resolutions by the United Nations Security Council ban all ballistic missile and nuclear tests by North Korea, and sanctions have been imposed over the programs. Wednesday's missile launch into the Sea of Japan was detected by several militaries in the region and drew criticism from the United States, South Korea, and Japan. Hypersonic missiles can achieve more than five times the speed of sound (about 6,200 kilometers per hour, or 3,850 miles per hour)  and are more agile than standard weaponry. Unlike ballistic missiles that enter space before returning to their targets on steep trajectories, hypersonic weapons travel at lower altitudes and can be maneuvered to make them more difficult to intercept. The development of more maneuverable missiles and warheads is likely aimed at thwarting missile defense systems used by South Korea and the United States. The US is currently spending billions of dollars on upgrading its missile defense capabilities. Washington condemned the launch and called on Pyongyang to sit down for talks. "This launch is in violation of multiple UN Security Council resolutions and poses a threat to the DPRK's neighbors and the international community," a State Department spokesperson said, using the official name of North Korea. Dialogue between the US and North Korea has stalled after talks in 2019 between leader Kim Jong Un and then President Donald Trump collapsed. The administration of Trump's successor Joe Biden has repeatedly declared its willingness to meet North Korean representatives, saying it would seek denuclearization. However, Pyongyang has so far refused to accept, accusing Washington of pursuing "hostile" policies. South Korean President Moon Jae-in said in his New Year's address that he would continue to seek ways to promote peace on the Korean Peninsula until his single five-year term ends in May. He has recently urged a symbolic declaration to end the 1950-53 Korean War, to reduce animosity. However, despite sanctions and major economic problems in North Korea caused by the COVID pandemic and mismanagement, Kim has since threatened to enlarge his nuclear arsenal. rc/wmr (Reuters, AP, AFP, dpa)