"I was very surprised and could not believe the whole thing before Kirill actually landed in Hamburg last Saturday," Thalia Theater artistic director Joachim Lux told DW. Lux and other participants in the production of Anton Chekhov's story, "The Black Monk," at the Thalia Theater in Hamburg had assumed that the star director Kirill Serebrennikov would only be joining via Zoom from Moscow during the stage rehearsals. The internationally acclaimed opera, film and theater director has been under house arrest since the summer of 2017. He was accused of embezzling state subsidies that had gone into his "Gogol-Сenter" theater, which has become a home for Moscow's liberal-minded artists and intelligentsia. After a tough two-year trial, Serebrennikov was sentenced to three years' probation and a fine, and banned from leaving Russia. Directing at a distance: During his years under house arrest, Serebrennikov worked via video link Now the ban has been temporarily suspended. "Perhaps it has to do with the fact that Kirill has paid back the allegedly embezzled funds," said Lux, "even though his suspended sentence is still valid until summer 2023." No one, not even Serebrennikov himself, can say what exactly went on behind the scenes in the Russian judiciary. Russian theater critic Marina Davydova suspects a decision "from the very top," especially since Serebrennikov's case has been a political issue from the start. Lux was of course very pleased that his friend could leave Russia. "This is very encouraging with regard to freedom and also for art," he said. "There is hardly any other artist I know who is as passionate about the freedom of art, and who approaches it with such humanitarism, inner independence and unwillingness to compromise as Serebrennikov." For Serebrennikov, who is able to stage a work on site for the first time in four-and-a-half years, the trip to Hamburg is a liberating one. "I am very, very happy and fortunate that Hamburg is the first European city in which I am allowed to work again," he said upon arrival. Kirill Serebrennikow and Joachim Lux during the former's arrival in Hamburg on January 8 Despite legal persecution, the director continued to work and realized several important projects within Russia while under probation. These include the ballet "Nureyev" at the Bolshoi Theater in Moscow; the feature film "Leto," which was screened in Cannes, among other places; and the stage production "Baroque," which Russian critics named 2019's Play of the Year. Serebrennikov also remained active internationally, having staged Dmitri Shostakovich's opera "The Nose" (based on Nikolai Gogol's story) for the season opener at the Bavarian State Opera in October 2021. Serebrennikov interpreted Gogol's subject as a pointed caricature of the current social situation in Russia and its lack of artistic freedom. Serebrennikov worked via his assistants in Munich and via video links. He was also connected via video from Moscow during the final applause of the celebrated premiere. The renowned Russian director has spent almost 20 months imprisoned in his apartment after being placed under house arrest in August 2017. He was released on Monday, but he still faces trial. Serebrennikov is accused of conspiring to embezzle state funds of the theater he manages, but the charges are widely viewed as politically motivated. If convicted, he could spend up to 10 years in prison. The director gained his mainstream renown thanks to the state's blessing, as during the mid- to late 2000s, Putin agreed to develop a bold and experimental arts scene. Serebrennikov, who was born in 1969 and had studied physics before directing plays and TV films in southern Russia's Rostov-on-Don, was noticed by Russia's Minister of Culture when he started working in Moscow in his 30s. Serebrennikov was appointed as the artistic director of this small state-run theater in 2012 and turned the Gogol Center into one of the most popular venues for Moscow's liberal intelligentsia, bringing together theater, contemporary dance, music, cinema and classes. In May 2017, Russian authorities had the multidisciplinary arts complex raided and arrested three employees of the theater. Serebrennikov staged various successful productions at the Gogol Center, such as an adaptation of Lars von Trier's "The Idiots" in 2015. In reaction to the massive protest movements against Putin following the elections of 2011, the state's ideology changed. The Minister of Culture was replaced by a conservative nationalist in 2012. The Orthodox Church's influence on the Kremlin became stronger. Meanwhile, Kirill Serebrennikov's acclaim had started spreading internationally, with his films screened at the world's top festivals and his theater productions also touring abroad. He was invited as a guest director at Berlin's Komische Oper in 2016, where he produced his interpretation of Rossini's comic opera from 1816, "The Barber of Seville." Serebrennikov also directed the film "The Student," which screened at Cannes in 2016. An allegory for the country's growing conservatism, it portrays a student who drags his school into disaster after becoming a religious fanatic. The director had also started directly criticizing the state's treatment of LGBT community in the country and Russia's seizure of Crimea in 2014. In July 2017, the Bolshoi Theater's sold-out premiere of the ballet "Nureyev," portraying the famous ballet dancer of the same name, was cancelled at the last minute. Rumors started circulating that influential Orthodox authorities didn't approve its depiction of homosexual love and wanted it reworked. Serebrennikov was already in his fourth month of house arrest when the piece finally premiered. He was directing this movie in St. Petersburg when he was arrested on the film set on August 22, 2017. The next day, Serebrennikov was sentenced to house arrest in Moscow. "Leto" (Summer) is a biopic portraying Soviet rock icon Viktor Tsoi and Leningrad's underground culture of the 1980s. It competed at the Cannes festival in 2018, but the director was not allowed to attend the premiere. The detained director obtained prominent support worldwide, including at the 2018 Cannes film festival (picture). A clear demonstration of the absurdity of the embezzlement charges against Serebrennikov and his colleagues at the Gogol Center came when prosecutors claimed a production of "A Midsummer Night's Dream" had never occurred — even though it had won many awards and went on to tour abroad. Based on four short dramas by Russian poet Alexander Pushkin, "Little Tragedies" is just one of the classics Serebrennikov tackled. It premiered in September 2017, just a few weeks after his arrest. The production included references to current events and the director's absence, such as excerpts of the poem "October 19," which was also the date Serebrennikov was due to appear in court. Another Serebrennikov production was scheduled to premiere at the Stuttgart Opera in October 2017, a few months after his arrest. His interpretation of "Hänsel and Gretel" was to feature footage shot in Rwanda. The opera house nevertheless offered an incomplete version of the work, which was subtitled "A fairytale about hope and misery told by Kirill Serebrennikov." While detained in his two-room apartment without access to the internet or a phone, Serebrennikov managed to stage elaborate productions, providing his instructions on USB sticks to his assistants. His latest opera, adapted from Verdi's "Nabucco," premiered at Hamburg's Staatsoper in March. Even though he was freed from house arrest on April 8, the director is still not allowed to leave Moscow. Author: Elizabeth Grenier For his first on site work since his arrest, Serebrennikov has now chosen the story "The Black Monk" by Anton Chekhov, which is considered one of the most enigmatic works by the great Russian playwright. Cast with only four characters, the mini-drama in the form of a philosophical novella is about a university professor who is haunted by the mirage of a black monk. "There is no clear interpretation for this tale, which is very famous in Russia and completely unknown in Germany," said Lux of the upcoming Hamburg production. "The conflict, if you will, is the gap between the necessity of average bourgeois life on the one hand, and on the other, people's desire to be great and special, perhaps even brilliant." Serebrennikov's productions are provocative and political: here, a scene from the opera "The Nose" in Munich Chekhov's tale has never been interpreted as a stage play, and that may have influenced the director's decision. "Kirill said that in Moscow you can see 'The Cherry Orchard' ten times and 'The Seagull' eight times every night, which he found totally boring," Lux explained. An international ensemble cast drawn from Russia, Germany, the US, Armenia and Latvia will feature in "The Black Monk" production. The six-week preliminary rehearsals took place in Moscow starting on November 8. After the stage rehearsals in Hamburg, the premiere is scheduled for January 22. Immediately afterwards, Serebrennikov will return to Russia for an international film project, according to the official statement. The Russian-born German star pianist gives a concert every evening during the corona crisis live on Twitter, with the recording available immediately after on Twitter. Performed in casual dress, these house concerts are his way of maintaining a connection to his audience while doubling as valuable daily practice. Levit's house concerts have a cult following online. A new literary genre is taking hold, particularly in France: the quarantine diary. Bestseller author Leïla Slimani publishes hers in the daily Le Monde, praising the beauty of the morning mist, the buds on the lime tree, the blooming chamomile. "Curfew? For an author, a stroke of luck," she writes. The 29-year-old artist revealed himself via webcam for eight hours a day for 50 days, even while eating and sleeping. Before the Corona crisis erupted, Iskin withdrew into Berlin's Sexauer Gallery until the end of March to concentrate on painting. He looked increasingly unkept but was highly productive. The paintings might be sold once the pandemic is over. The Russian theater director was under house arrest for 18 months until April 2019, but made his isolation productive. Now he has published a video with tips for getting through the corona crisis: "Read, keep a diary, exercise, work at home, cultivate friendships. Most important thing learned: Delete the concepts 'quarantine' and 'isolation'. It's a 'new start'. It's 'regeneration'." The Serbian performance artist spends every year's end in a monastery in India to meditate and recharge her batteries. "We have to create situations where our bodies are healthy and function well," says Abramovic. The first time she went into a three-month retreat, she had to burn all her possessions to be "reborn." In 2009, the Chinese concept artist Ai Weiwei was arrested and so severely beaten by police that he suffered a cerebral hemorrhage. His "crime" was to call for a thorough investigation of earthquake victims suffering damages due to lax building standards in Sichuan. Then he criticized the regime in selfies from surgery – and made his prison time and house arrest in 2011 an artistic statement. The painter, poet and photographer was held under house arrest by the Chinese government for eight years. The widow of Liu Xiaobo, a dissident writer and Nobel Peace Prize laureate who died in 2017, Liu Xia expressed her helplessness in the face the regime in poems and photographs exhibited in Berlin's Martin Gropius Bau. But Liu Xia also suffered from depression. The Norwegian painter was terrified of the Spanish flu that broke out in Europe in 1918. Munch gave expression to the pandemic in several works, including the Man with Bronchitis and Self-Portrait with the Spanish Flu. The artist went into voluntary isolation when he himself was stricken with influenza and lived only with his art. He lived alone for almost the last 30 years of his life. The Russian poet Alexander Pushkin, founder of modern Russian literature, withdrew to his family estate in Boldino for several months in 1830 to escape a cholera pandemic. There he would lie in bed until 3pm in the afternoon writing text after text — poems, novels, fairy tales — with no distractions. Napoleon Bonaparte had the French author arrested in 1851 and later banished. Hugo even had to symbolically take off his last shirt. For 19 years he settled on the Channel Islands of Jersey and Guernsey, which belonged to England. He used his downtime most of all to attack "little Napoleon" from exile. He also worked on novels such as Les Misérables. The French philosopher Blaise Pascal, the act of leaving his room was the root of all evil. Around 1657, in his collection of aphorisms collected on scraps of paper titled Pensées ("Thoughts"), he wrote: "Every misfortune of humanity comes from people not being able to stay quietly in a room." Pascal was deeply religious, and to him staying in solitary in one's room was a path to finding God. Author: Sabine Oelze (rf) This article was originally written in German.