Greek artist Alekos Fassianos died Sunday aged 86 at his home after a long illness, the state news agency ANA reported. Born on December 16, 1935, Fassianos studied violin at the Athens Conservatory and painting at the Athens School of Fine Arts from 1955 to 1960. Shortly after his first exhibition, he moved from his hometown of Athens to Paris after gaining a French state scholarship to study lithography at the the Ecole des Beaux-Arts (National School of Fine Arts). He ended up staying in the French capital for the next 35 years. Amsterdam's Rijksmuseum closely examined Rembrandt's most famous painting over the past two years, using state-of-the-art technology. It turned out that Rembrandt first made a sketch on the canvas, painted over it and made several changes as he was going along. "We have discovered the genesis of 'The Night Watch,'" director Taco Dibbits said, calling it a "breakthrough." People are familiar with Johannes Vermeer's "Girl Reading a Letter at an Open Window" (ca. 1657-1659) in its version on the left. Two years ago, researchers discovered a naked cupid figure that had been painted over. The painting, cupid and all, is on display in the Dresden exhibition "Johannes Vermeer. On Reflection" in its original state until January 2, 2022. Last year, people were surprised at a discovery in the Ghent altarpiece made during restoration work. The Flemish painter Jan van Eyck (about 1390 to 1441) had not painted the lamb as shown on the left, but actually as seen on the right, with a narrow snout and a piercing, downright human-like gaze. The uncovered original was mocked in social media. The version we see of Michelangelo's "Last Judgement" (1534-1541) in the Sistine Chapel does not correspond to the original. The figures he painted around Jesus Christ were stark naked. His contemporaries felt that was obscene, so they commissioned his student Daniele da Volterra to add pants to the nude figures. He went down in history as "braghettone" (the breeches painter). Vincent van Gogh painted over many of his pictures. Money was too tight to keep buying new canvases. In 1886, he painted "Still Life with Meadow Flowers and Roses" over two half-naked wrestlers he had created at the Antwerp Art Academy (right). It wasn't until 2012 that the flower painting was clearly attributed to van Gogh. More painted-over works by van Gogh: the painting "Wild Vegetation" (bottom left) was discovered under "Ravine" (top left). The two paintings were created four months apart. In 2008 researchers used special X-ray technology to find a portrait of a woman under his painting "Grasgrond" (right). They were able to reconstruct the dark portrait in great detail. Thrifty, Pablo Picasso once used a canvas for "La Misereuse accroupie" (1902) that had already been painted on by an unknown artist. In 2018, a Canadian research team discovered a landscape and a hand underneath the woman with the blanket. Picasso even used the existing lines for his painting. For almost a century, Max Pechstein's "Lady with Hat" (1910) was hidden behind a flower still life. Pechstein probably canceled out the original with its bright colors because he wasn't happy with it. He preferred to hide what nowadays is seen as Expressionism and considered worthy of protection. Swiss painter and sculptor Alberto Giacometti (1901-1966) painted over his pictures again and again, not only out of lack of money but because he was dissatisfied with his work. When he painted, he cursed, lamented, and started over again. It took him 18 days to paint the portrait of his friend James Lord. "I dream of painting an invisible picture," Georg Baselitz said in 2013. But how? By making it disappear under layers of black paint. "Joseph Beuys simply placed the painting with its back to the viewer, preserving the mystery. That's roughly how I imagine it," he said — an entirely different approach from that of his colleagues over the centuries. Author: Bettina Baumann Although some of his early paintings were in a contemporary style, he also drew a lot of inspiration from popular art and Ancient Greek mythology. He was also stirred by Byzantine themes. In addition to painting and lithography, he also illustrated books, designed costumes for theatrical productions and created sculptures. Described by some as the Picasso of Greece, Fassianos was widely lauded and many of his works adorn public spaces, including a mural at a subway station in the Greek capital. In France, he was made a commander of the Order of Arts and Letters and an officer of the Legion of Honor. His works have been exhibited across Europe and Latin America. His final major exhibition was a 2004 retrospective in Athens. "All the work of Fassianos, the colors that filled his canvases, the multidimensional forms that dominated his paintings, exude Greece," said Culture Minister Lina Mendoni in a statement. Prime Minister Kyriakos Mitsotakis said Fassianos "always balanced between realism and abstraction" and he "leaves us a precious heritage". Fassianos leaves behind his wife, Mariza, and two daughters. jsi/wd (AFP, AP, Reuters)