Paris Saint-Germain (PSG) forward Lionel Messi and three teammates have tested positive for COVID-19, the French club said on Sunday. Defender Juan Bernat, reserve goalkeeper Sergio Rico and midfielder Nathan Bitumazala, as well as one member of staff at the Ligue 1 club, are also isolating after contracting the virus. Messi tested positive while on vacation in his hometown of Rosario in Argentina. The seven-time Ballon d'Or winner is "constantly in contact with our medical service. When he is negative, he will be able to return to France," PSG coach Mauricio Pochettino, who is also from Argentina, told a press conference. The French government recently announced that it would reduce the quarantine time from 10 to seven days for people who are fully vaccinated, but test positive for COVID-19. As Messi is not in France at the moment though, it is unclear when he will be permitted to return. Can the "Indomitable Lions" of Cameroon win the tournament in their own country? Bayern Munich's Eric Maxim Choupo-Moting (foreground, right) wasn't part of the team that won the Cup in 2017. This could be his chance to shine in the land of his father. There are 24 teams in the tournament from January 9, with Algeria the defending champions from 2019. The first tennis Grand Slam of 2022 starts on January 17, but will Novak Djokovic defend his title? He has refused to confirm whether he has been vaccinated against COVID-19, a requirement to compete in Melbourne, although a medical exemption could yet be granted. Rafael Nadal contracted the virus in December but will compete. The Winter Games in Beijing, which are to open on February 4, have been controversial from the moment the city was named host in 2015. Alleged widespread human rights abuses have led to the United States and some of its allies declaring a diplomatic boycott of the Games. The COVID-19 pandemic and restrictions to be implemented during the Olympics are also threatening to cast a dark cloud. The National Football League's championship game, 54th edition, is one of the single most-watched sports events in the world, with millions of even non-NFL fans tuning in all over the globe. As anticipated as the action on the field is the halftime show, which on February 13 is set to feature rap and R&B icons Dr. Dre, Mary J. Blige, Kendrick Lamar, Eminem and Snoop Dogg. The 2022 F1 season begins on March 20 with the Bahrain Grand Prix. New rules and technical changes are being introduced in an effort to narrow the gap between the top tier and weaker teams. Not that the 2021 season wasn't exciting. Will we see another close battle between champion Max Verstappen (left) and Lewis Hamilton (right)? Or could a third driver find his way into the mix? Due to the COVID-19 pandemic, the Ironman World Championship won't be held in Hawaii in October for the first time since 1978. Instead, the 3.86-kilometer swim, 180.2-kilometer bike ride and 42.2-kilometer run will be held on May 7 in St. George, Utah. The 109th edition of the world's biggest cycling race will open with an individual time-trial in Copenhagen on July 1. The following two stages will also be in Denmark, before the riders are transferred to France for the rest of the 3,328-kilometer race. Tadej Pogacar dominated the 2021 Tour. Will the Slovenian ride up the Champs Elysees in Paris wearing the yellow jersey once again in 2022? For just the second time since 2005, England is set to host the Women's Football European Championship, which kicks off on July 6. Unlike 16 years ago, this time the Lionesses are among the favorites. Germany and Lea Schüller (right) are also hoping to do better than at the 2017 Euros and the 2019 World Cup, when they failed to make it past the quarterfinals. The World Athletics Championships will be held in Eugene, Oregon starting on July 15, and unlike in 2019 in Doha, this time big crowds and more comfortable temperatures are expected. However, some have criticized the fact that the US city was named host of the event without having had to go through a traditional bidding process. The city also happens to be home to sporting goods giant Nike. Germany is one of four co-hosts of Eurobasket 2022, along with the Czech Republic, Italy, and Georgia. Cologne's Lanxess Arena will host all of the games in Germany's Group B, while Berlin's Mercedes-Benz Arena will host the knockout phase, including the final on September 18. Among Germany's opponents in Group B will be Slovenia and their superstar Luka Doncic (right). The seven-a-side variant of rugby, which unlike the 15-a-side Union code is an Olympic sport, is growing in popularity. The World Cup kicks off in Cape Town, South Africa on September 9. There will be 24 men's teams in South Africa for the event, with 16 women's teams playing a parallel tournament with New Zealand's Stacey Fluhler hoping to star. Qatar has invested a huge amount into constructing new stadiums and infrastructure. But rights groups have sharply criticized the situation in the Emirate, in particular the conditions of foreign workers and the high number of deaths on stadium construction sites. The final of this first World Cup to be held late in the calendar year is slated for December 18. Edited by: Mark Meadows Author: Andreas Sten-Ziemons, Chuck Penfold Messi will be absent for Monday's French Cup tie against Vannes, and Pochettino said he did not know if his fellow countryman would also miss PSG's first Ligue 1 match following the winter break, at Lyon next Sunday. He is the latest in a growing list of soccer stars and coaches who have contracted COVID-19 in recent days. Liverpool manager — and German native — Jürgen Klopp is also self-isolating after testing positive on Saturday, while Bayern Munich captain Manuel Neuer and four other players on the Bundesliga team have also contracted COVID. jsi/rs (AP, Reuters, dpa, AFP)