The French government on Tuesday promised to step up the fight against femicide after three women were found dead in different parts of the country on New Year's Day, in suspected domestic violence attacks. The incidents, which took place within a span of 24 hours, have sparked an outcry by feminist campaigners who accuse President Emmanuel Macron's government of having failed to protect women. "There were more than 100 femicides in 2021 and already since the start of the year three new murders committed in scandalous conditions," Prime Minister Jean Castex told parliament on Tuesday. "The government and the nation are completely committed to the fight against this scourge," he added. In 2021 alone, 113 women were killed by men who were, in most cases, their male partners or ex-partners. While families and friends celebrated the New Year, "three women have already been murdered because they are women," said French feminist collective Nous Toutes (All of us). Police in the southern French city of Nice found the body of a 45-year-old woman in the trunk of a car after her husband turned himself in, confessing to having strangled her. The same day, police in the eastern Meurthe-et-Moselle region found the body of a 56-year-old woman with a knife stuck in her chest. Her partner, a man in his 50s, admitted to killing her following an argument. In the early hours of Sunday, a 27-year-old woman, a soldier, was found lying with fatal stab wounds outside her home in a town near Saumur, western France. Her 21-year-old partner, also a soldier, was arrested and a murder probe opened. Nous Toutes denounced "the silence of Emmanuel Macron and the government in the face of sexist and sexual violence in France." Following the widespread outrage, government ministers held an online meeting on Tuesday with officials from the town where one of the killings took place. "We're all mobilized," junior minister for equal rights, Elisabeth Moreno said in a tweet deploring the killings. Nous Toutes responded to her saying: "In 2022, there is no longer the time to lament, it is the time to act. These femicides could have been avoided." "Three women killed in 24 hours and their only reaction is to organize a little meeting days later," Marylie Breuil of Nous Toutes. " No, their work isn't done." Hundreds of protesters called for gender equality as they marched to the historic Brandenburg Gate in Berlin, local media reported. A study showed that, in recent months, women held proportionally less management positions in German companies than men. More women have faced challenges to advance their careers while they take care of their children in lockdown. Ukraine's capital Kyiv was rocked by protests as thousands of women marched to highlight domestic violence. With banners saying "the pandemic has a woman's face," protesters aimed to draw attention to how women suffered during the COVID crisis. Cases of domestic violence have risen worldwide during the coronavirus pandemic, as isolation and confinement prompted sexual and gender-based violence. Hundreds of women rallied in the capital Manila protesting President Rodrigo Duterte for alleged abuses against women. The president has angered women's rights groups since he took office in 2016 as he has repeatedly made jokes about rape. Protesters smashed an effigy of Duterte with sledgehammers. Rallies took to the streets in Istanbul to protest violence against women. A day before the protests, Turkish authorities announced the arrest of a man who appeared to beat his wife on the streets in a widely circulated video on social media. Turkey has one of the highest femicide rates in the world. Last year, at least 300 women were murdered, according to a rights group. Pakistani women rallied around the country's major cities in defiance of Islamist hardliners, who had attacked the march with stones last year. Dancing, chanting and marching, protesters demanded reform in the healthcare system, highlighting how the pandemic struck women the most. Women around the world suffered to access reproductive and sexual healthcare during the coronavirus crisis. Women placed flowers and wrote the names of victims of violence on a fence set at the presidential palace in Mexico City. In the last five years, femicide rates rose to almost 130% in Mexico. Author: Farah Bahgat She said that nearly two-thirds of victims had reported past abuse to police, adding that such killings are "just the top tip of the iceberg" of domestic abuse. "There are so many signals you can notice" before such abuse turns deadly, Breuil said. "The number of femicides from year to year is not falling, and that's very serious," she said. The French prime minister said the government had taken several measures to combat femicide. This includes setting up a 24/7 emergency hotline and sensitivity training for 90,000 police officers to improve the handling of mistreatment complaints from women, Castex said. But activists argue that the police training doesn't reach enough officers and is often too cursory to make a difference. Castex also said there would be an "equality week" at schools around March 8 International Woman's Day every year from now. The government was spending €1 billion ($1.1 billion) per year on the fight against domestic violence, he added. adi/rt (AFP, AP)