A fire broke out at the South African Parliament building in Cape Town in the early hours of Sunday morning. The blaze has caused widespread damage, spreading to the wing housing the current National Assembly, where parliament sits. Emergency crews are still fighting to bring the fire under control, with the blaze already destroying the roof of one area. A man has been arrested in connection with the blaze, although the cause is not yet known. The fire broke out around 3:00 a.m. UTC (0400 CET) and was on the third story of the Parliament building, which is located behind the National Assembly building. Reports indicated that it started in the office space and spread toward a gym. Firefighters continued to battle the Parliament blaze throughout the day — with smoke billowing from the buildings At least 70 firefighters were at the scene along with several firefighting vehicles. The blaze has already caused the roof of one building to cave in. "The roof of the Old Assembly building has collapsed and is gone," Jean-Pierre Smith, Cape Town's mayoral committee member for safety and security, told reporters. The nearby area, including the cathedral where Archbishop Desmond Tutu was buried on Saturday, has been cordoned off. No casualties have been reported, and it was not immediately clear if anyone was in the building when the fire started. A 51-year-old man is in custody in connection with the blaze. Police spokeswoman Thandi Mbambo said Sunday, "A man has been arrested inside the parliament, he's still being interrogated. We have opened a criminal case. He has been arrested and will appear in court on Tuesday." The cause of the blaze is still unknown. Public Works Minister Patricia de Lille said that officials were reviewing CCTV footage. Officials are examining CCTV footage to try to determine the cause of the fire Parliament speaker Nosiviwe Mapisa-Nqakula cautioned against speculation that the fire was a deliberate attack. "Until such a time that a report has been furnished that there was arson, we have to be careful not to make suggestions that there was an attack,'' she said. President Cyril Ramaphosa toured the site on Sunday, with many describing the situation as a blow to South Africa's democracy. "This is devastating, coming as it does a day after our send-off for Archbishop Desmond Tutu," Ramaphosa said in a statement. South African President Cyril Ramaphosa said the fire at Parliament was "devastating" and that the fire has damaged much of the building He praised the firefighters who "worked to stop Parliament from being razed to ashes," but said "it is very clear that this fire has devastated the parliamentary precinct and its contents and assets, including Parliament's historical treasures of heritage." Cape Town Mayor Geordin Hill-Lewis said in a statement he was in contact with the speaker of Parliament, Nosiviwe Mapisa-Nqakula, and that the city of Cape Town had offered use of the city's Council Chamber so "that the work of Parliament can continue." Hill-Lewis sad in addition to making the Council Chamber available for Parliament's use, he had offered "the use of the Grand Parade and City Hall for the State of the Nation Address." The Houses of Parliament in Cape Town consist of three main sections. The oldest was constructed in 1884, and the newer sections were added in the 1920s and 1980s. While South Africa's National Assembly and upper House National Council of Provinces are located in Cape Town, the government is based in Pretoria. This is the second massive fire Cape Town has endured in recent years. In April 2020, a wildfire that started on the slopes of Table Mountain destroyed the University of Cape Town campus and ravaged its historic library that housed a priceless African Studies collection described as "unique in the world." ar, jsi, mvb, tg/rs (AFP, Reuters, dpa)