Munich Archbishop Cardinal Reinhard Marx said he accepted responsibility for his role in a documented history of sexual abuse in the Diocese of Munich and Freising in the southern German state of Bavaria. While speaking at the Catholic Academy in Munich on Thursday, Marx acknowledged several times that he had personally not done enough to help victims, saying: "That is unforgivable. We were not really interested in their suffering. The way I see it, that also had to do with systemic issues, at the same time, as archbishop, I bear moral responsibility." The cardinal once again asked victims for forgiveness, "personally and in the name of the diocese." Moreover, he appealed to Catholics: "who doubt the Church, who can no longer trust those in authority and whose faith has been damaged. For too long we have failed to focus sufficiently on and involve parishes where perpetrators were posted." Marx underscored the urgency of dealing with the issue in stark terms: "There is no future for Christianity in our country without a renewed Church. For me, the reappraisal of sexual abuse is part of a fundamental renewal." The Munich religious leader's words come just days after a damning report on the history of sexual abuse of children and minors in the diocese outlined crimes against at least 497 victims since 1945. The report, prepared by the law firm Westpfahl Spilker Wastl (WSW), says that some 235 perpetrators were involved in the crimes. Investigators believe the true number of incidents of abuse to be far higher. "Anyone who still denies the systemic causes, or disputes the need for reform of the Church's positions and its structures, has failed to understand the challenge before us," Marx said in response to its findings. Among those implicated in the report were several of Marx's predecessors, most famously, Joseph Ratzinger, who went on to become Pope Benedict XVI. After initially denying knowledge of four specific cases of abuse, the former pontiff has recently offered a half-hearted admission acknowledging that he had made "incorrect statements," during the WSW investigation, though not with "ill intent." Marx, on Thursday, said "Now we know enough to look more closely and be able to act differently." "We are pope" reads the headline of Germany's leading tabloid, "Bild." On April 19, 2005, the College of Cardinals elected 78-year-old Joseph Ratzinger to succeed John Paul II as the 265th pope. Taking the name Benedict XVI, the first German pope in nearly 500 years displayed humility while assuming the papal throne: "The cardinals have elected me, a modest laborer in the Lord's vineyard." Born on April 16, 1927, Joseph Ratzinger grew up immersed in World War II. Early in his life, Ratzinger decided to follow the path of the church, and even as a boy expressed his wish to become a cardinal. During the war, Ratzinger was required to join the Hitler Youth at the age of 16. Ratzinger later said he left the group as soon as organizers stopped requiring him to attend. He is pictured here in 1943. In 1944, he was drafted into the Wehrmacht. At the end of the war he was briefly held as a prisoner of war by United States forces, but was released in June 1945. Joseph Ratzinger studied theology, was ordained in 1952 and became a professor for theology at the University of Regensburg at the early age of 30. Ratzinger was initially seen as a progressive member of the church, but he reportedly turned more conservative after the student protests of the late 1960s. In 1981, just four years after he was made Archbishop of Munich and Freising, Pope John Paul II brought Ratzinger (right) to Rome — appointing him prefect of the Congregation of the Doctrine of the Faith, making him the most powerful enforcer of Catholic doctrine. That an academic with limited pastoral experience should rise so high in the church hierarchy was a bone of contention for critics. Cardinal Ratzinger became increasingly conservative, something he shared in common with John Paul II. Advice on the prohibition of abortion, and against contraception and Latin American Liberation Theology bore his hallmarks. He stayed true to his conservative path throughout his papacy, as well. In 2009, Pope Benedict XVI's lifting of the excommunications of four bishops of the Society of Saint Pius, one of whom had denied the Holocaust, caused a global outcry. Poor personnel decisions, a lack of ecumenical progress — and above all, the sexual abuse of minors by the clergy, which was covered up for decades — all marred the pope's tenure. Pope Benedict did try to address the issue of sexual abuse, including reaching out to victims. He described the abuse of minors by priests as a "scourge" and having evinced "great suffering." Although he did tighten restrictions for training priests, critics accused him of doing too little. Indeed, it was his successor who called the first major crisis meeting on the topic in the Vatican. On his third visit to Germany, Benedict XVI was received by adoring crowds, such as here in Erfurt. But the pope also faced harsh criticism: He was accused of ignoring victims' associations in his deliberations and discussions. And his strict refusal to allow Holy Communion to couples of mixed denominations was seen as a rejection of ecumenical values. At the carnival parade in Mainz in 2007, Benedict XVI was depicted driving into a mosque in his popemobile. The float was an allusion to a controversial statement by the pope, in which he quoted the Byzantine Emperor Manuel II Palaiologos, who said the Prophet Mohammed had brought "only evil and inhumanity" into the world. His choice of words caused a storm of controversy in the Muslim world. In February 2013, Benedict XVI resigned from his offices as pope and bishop of Rome for health and age reasons. This step was seen as an act of great sovereignty, as it had been more than 700 years since a pope had retired of his own accord. Benedict may spend the rest of his days as "pope emeritus" in a monastery in the grounds of the Vatican. Following his resignation in 2013, Benedict XVI had pledged to obey his successor, Francis. Yet the pope emeritus raised his voice again. In early 2020, he published a book in which he argued vehemently against changing priestly celibacy. Francis had refused to categorically rule out consecrating married men as priests. On January 24, 2022, the former pope apologized for providing false information during a probe into sexual abuse in his old Munich archdiocese. His statement read that this was not done "with ill intent," but was rather an "oversight." The former pope had told an inquiry he had not been present at a 1980 meeting discussing a pedophile priest who had been allowed to remain in office. Author: Christoph Strack The 68-year-old Marx, who had previously offered his resignation, told those gathered in Munich: "My offer of resignation last year was very serious. Pope Francis decided differently and called on me to responsibly continue to carry out my job." Marx however said that he was still prepared to step aside should he prove "more of a hindrance than a help" going forward. "I am not glued to my office," he said. Last June, Marx submitted a letter of resignation to Pope Francis as a gesture of his own responsibility in the affair. Francis rejected the letter, thanking Marx for exhibiting "Christian courage that does not fear the cross, that does not fear being humiliated before the tremendous reality of sin." Acknowledging "the whole Church is in crisis because of the abuse issue," the pontiff wrote, "the Church today cannot take a step forward without addressing this crisis. Taking up the crisis, personally and communally, is the only fruitful way, because we do not come out of a crisis alone but in community." js/msh (dpa, epd, KNA)