Berlin's Public Prosecutor's Office has launched a breach of trust investigation into COVID-19 bonus payments made to leading members of the Green Party. German news magazine Der Spiegel first reported about the investigation on Wednesday, with a spokesperson for the city-state of Berlin's public prosecutor also confirming the probe later in the day. Green Party leadership approved payments of up to €1,500 ($1,700) to both members of the party's executive committee and employees at the Green Party's headquarters in Berlin in 2020. The coronavirus bonuses were intended to compensate Green Party employees for working from home during the pandemic. The probe, which was opened on January 6, targets members of the Green Party federal executive committee, which includes co-leaders Annalena Baerbock and Robert Habeck, along with Michael Kellner, Jamila Schäfer, Ricarda Lang and Marc Urbatsch. A Green Party spokesperson also confirmed the probe. "The board members concerned and the main office are cooperating fully with the Public Prosecutor's Office to clarify the facts quickly and comprehensively," the spokesperson said, adding that Green Party board members have returned the payments. Germany's chancellor was finance minister and vice-chancellor in Angela Merkel's government. He campaigned on stability and pragmatism to become the Federal Republic's ninth chancellor and the fourth Social Democrat to hold the office. The former mayor of Hamburg handed his center-left party a surprise win in September's election. Media-savvy Christian Lindner has been leader of Free Democratic Party (FDP) since 2013, inheriting a party that had just lost representation in parliament in the election. The 42-year-old's reward for leading the neoliberal resurrection is the second most powerful office in the land — raising eyebrows among some who pointed out that his party actually finished behind the Greens in the election. The Greens have expanded the influential Economy Ministry to include its signature issue, climate protection, while also enhancing the power of 52 year-old Green Party co-leader Robert Habeck. A member of the more moderate "realist" wing of the party, Habeck the author of childrens' books was already Environment and Agriculture Minister in his home state of Schleswig-Holstein. Angela Baerbock, the party's 40-year-old chancellor candidate, is set to be the new Foreign Minister, and has already ruffled feathers by taking a tougher tone on China. Baerbock is only the second Green politician to take on the post, after Joschka Fischer in the late 1990s. Possibly the biggest surprise in Scholz's new Cabinet, Faeser has been elevated from SPD party leader in Hesse to one of Germany's biggest ministries, her first role at federal level. Some observers hope her appointment signal an intention to get tougher on far-right extremism. She is the first woman to hold the office. A popular choice for Germans who have enjoyed his outspoken appearances on TV talk shows, Lauterbach has been the face of the SPD's tough health policy throughout the COVID-19 pandemic. His reward is a tricky post in which he will likely oversee the introduction of mandatory vaccines. The 44-year-old Buschmann was first elected to the Bundestag in 2009 and remained an influential politician in the party throughout the FDP's lean years from 2013 to 2017. His signature issue in parliament was protecting individual freedoms, though he has now come out in favor of mandatory vaccines. Angela Merkel's last justice minister has now been put in charge of Germany's armed forces and one of the biggest budgets at the Cabinet table. Some political observers had the 56-year old pegged for the Interior Ministry role, and her experience with military affairs is seen as limited. The veteran Green Party politician will finally join the federal government after over a quarter-century in the German parliament. The first-ever German Cabinet minister with Turkish parents is a party moderate and outspoken critic of Turkish President Erdogan. He co-chaired the Green Party for close to a decade. The ministry with the longest name has gone to the much-respected Steffi Lemke, among the handful who co-founded the Greens' East German branch in 1989. During her first spell in the Bundestag (1994-2002), she was also one of the few Green Party parliamentarians to initially oppose German participation in the Afghan war. FDP General Secretary Volker Wissing is the party's second most powerful politician after leader Christian Lindner. He is also no stranger to a coalition with the SPD and the Greens, having spent five years as Rhineland-Palatinate's Economy Minister. One of only two East Germans in the new Cabinet, Klara Geywitz has been tapped to head a new ministry set up at the insistence of the SPD. Housing has become an acute issue in Germany, where urban areas are fast running out of affordable housing. Geywitz was Scholz's co-candidate in their failed bid for the SPD leadership in 2019. 43-year-old Heil will keep the post that he held during Angela Merkel's last government, indicating that his party his pleased with his work. Among his key issues has been trying to increase pay for care home workers, which Germany is desperately short of. He will also oversee the increase in Germany's minimum wage to €12 ($13.60) an hour. Angela Merkel's last environment minister is to become Scholz's first development minister. The 53-year-old Schulze is an outspoken opponent of nuclear power and a member of several environmental organizations. Head of the Hesse FDP, 53-year-old Stark-Watzinger was part of the party's negotiating team in coalition negotiations and a specialist in finance and education policy. She has called for an "educational revolution" in Germany, ushering a major digitalized overhaul of the current system. She also lived in the UK for nine years. The 41-year-old Anne Spiegel has already had a meteoric career at state level. Having held the Family Ministry in Rhineland-Palatinate since 2016, she became the state's new Climate Protection minister in May after leading the Greens' election campaign in this year's state election. She has now been promoted even higher. Scholz's right-hand man in the Cabinet will be Wolfgang Schmidt, who worked with the chancellor when Scholz was mayor of Hamburg. Chief of staff with a special ministerial brief that gives the chancellorship extra weight in the Cabinet, Schmidt's role will largely involve coordinating the ministerial work of the three parties. Claudia Roth is moving into the spotlight of German cultural policy. Within the Chancellor's office, the 66-year-old will also be responsible for DW. Former party leader Roth is one of the most prominent faces of the Green Party. Most recently, the former manager of the anarchist band Ton Steine Scherben was Vice President of the Bundestag. Author: Ben Knight, Lisa Hänel The investigation could ignite criticism toward the new coalition government under German Chancellor Olaf Scholz. Baerbock currently serves as foreign minister, with Habeck serving as both minister for economic affairs and climate action and vice chancellor. Baerbock has previously been criticized for not reporting thousands of euros in special payments on her taxes. In line with party rules that prevent members from serving in government and party leadership roles, Baerbock and Habeck will resign from Green Party leadership later this month. The party expected to elect a new executive committee. wd/sms (Reuters, AFP, dpa)