 The number of new coronavirus infections in Germany crossed the 80,000 mark for the first time on Wednesday. Health authorities registered 80,430 cases in the last 24 hours, according to figures from the Robert Koch Institute. The latest infection tally was up by more than 21,500 from a week before. The seven-day incidence rate stood at 407.5 new infections per 100,000 people. A total of 384 deaths were also recorded in the country within the last 24 hours. German infectious disease expert Leif Erik Sander told DW last week that it was "difficult to say" whether new restrictions imposed in the country would curb a rise of infections due to the omicron variant of the virus. "It's evident that the cases are rising," he said, adding that it is "important to take measures to bring infection numbers down." "This is a new variant that spreads extremely rapidly and unfortunately also infects previously infected individuals and vaccinated individuals, at least those that have only had two shots of the vaccine," Sander said in regards to omicron. "It will be very, very important to very closely monitor the situation, especially in hospitals and other critical infrastructure." Meanwhile, Germany has obtained an additional 5 million doses of BioNtech-Pfizer's coronavirus vaccine to bolster the country's booster campaign, Health Minister Karl Lauterbach has confirmed. The shots were purchased from Romania, which had obtained them through the European Union's vaccine procurement scheme but remained unused. The doses will be available from January 24. Here's a roundup of the latest developments on COVID-19 from around the world: The World Health Organization warned on Tuesday that repeating booster shots of original COVID-19 vaccines was not a viable strategy for new variants. The health body urged for new shots that provide better protection from transmission. "A vaccination strategy based on repeated booster doses of the original vaccine composition is unlikely to be appropriate or sustainable," a WHO vaccine advisory group said.  Hong Kong will soon feel the negative effects of stricter quarantine curbs on air crew, with cargo traffic and implicitly — the supply of goods into the city — set to plummet, Chief Executive Carrie Lam told legislators on Wednesday. Lam said Hong Kong already had the toughest restrictions against imported infections and it was difficult to tighten them further. The Chinese city of Tianjin has started a new round of mass testing on all its 14 million residents after 97 cases of the omicron variant were discovered in initial screenings that began Sunday. On Wednesday, residents were ordered to remain where they were until all test results were received, the Xinhua News Agency said. Indonesia has opened its coronavirus booster campaign to the public as the country records rising infections driven by the omicron variant. The free shots will be given to the elderly and at-risk residents as a priority, but will be available to everyone who received their second dose six months previously.  South Korea on Wednesday greenlit the use of the Novavax COVID-19 jab and was gearing up to distribute the first of Pfizer’s antiviral oral drug, as the country turns to additional pharmaceutical tools amid the omicron threat. At least 21,000 of Pfizer's pills, called Paxlovid, will reach South Korea on Thursday, with an additional 10,000 more expected to arrive by the end of January, the health ministry said. The pills will be used in treatments for more than 1,000 people per day from Friday, the ministry added. Unvaccinated people will not be allowed to use public transport in the Philippine capital of Manila, the transport department said on Wednesday. Individuals with medical conditions that prevent their full inoculation will be exempt after producing a medical certificate. Meanwhile, unvaccinated people who need to buy essential goods or access essential services may be allowed to ride public transport if they have a health pass from their community officials or other proof to justify travel, the department added. In Japan, Tokyo and Osaka are expected to witness a spike in the coronavirus caseload to 4-month highs. Tokyo’s infections are likely to soar to 2,000 on Wednesday as the omicron variant gains foothold across the nation, the Fuji News Network reported. In the western prefecture of Osaka there could be 1,700 new cases on Wednesday, Governor Hirofumi Yoshimura told the media, nearly three times higher from the day before. Kyrgyzstan's Health Ministry on Wednesday confirmed the Central Asian nation’s first cases of the omicron variant. Densely packed streets like this one in Delhi provide fertile ground for the highly transmissible COVID-19 omicron variant. In just a week, the number of new infections in India has doubled to nearly 120,000 each day. Experts are warning that rising case numbers could soon overwhelm the country's hospitals. Omicron infections are reportedly relatively mild in many cases. But if too many workers in key sectors of the economy fall ill, it could lead to chaos. The Indian government has so far shied away from announcing a complete lockdown, mindful of the already bleak economic situation in the country. Instead, it's relying on increased testing as seen here in the city of Ahmedabad, in western India. So far, doctors and nurses have remained optimistic. They say patients who are being admitted to hospitals are rarely severe cases. And by now, health workers have the benefit of experience. "Last year, we didn't know what exactly we were dealing with. I think now, mentally, it's a little better," a front-line worker at a Delhi hospital told news agency AFP. In the Indian capital, New Delhi, the daily infection rate has soared fivefold. The government has announced a limited lockdown of 55 hours starting Friday evening. People will no longer be able to head to markets like this one in the old city quarter for shopping. Similar rules could be introduced in further states in the country. India appears to be better positioned to weather omicron than it was during last year's devastating wave driven by the delta variant. At the time, the health care system collapsed in many parts of the country and medical oxygen was in short supply. This time around, authorities have raised storage capacity for vital oxygen cylinders, as seen here at a facility for COVID-19 patients in New Delhi. India's health service workers have managed to adminster nearly 1.5 billion doses of the vaccine, with nearly two-thirds of the country now fully immunized, according to government figures. The vaccine campaign, combined with the immunity conferred during the last delta wave of infections, could help reduce the impact of the fast-spreading omicron variant. Author: Philipp Böll  The United States is nearing the "threshold" of living with the coronavirus, despite the spiking caseload and record-high hospitalizations, Chief Medical Advisor to the President Anthony Fauci has said. "There's no way we're going to eradicate this" virus, he said in an address to the Center for Strategic and International Studies on Tuesday. But "as omicron goes up and down," the country will hopefully enter a new phase "where there'll be enough protection in (the) community, enough drugs available so that when someone does get infected and is in a high risk group, it will be very easy to treat that person," Fauci added. "When we get there, there's that transition, and we may be on the threshold of that right now," he said. Fauci also underpinned that with the country reporting almost a million COVID-19 infections a day, over 1,200 daily deaths and some 150,000 people in hospital, "we're not at that point." Mexico reached a record number of daily COVID-19 infections on Tuesday, with 33,626 new confirmed cases. In Colombia, the waiting time for booster shots has been reduced to four months. "Everyone aged 18 and over who has had both doses, or one dose in cases like Janssen, can now have their booster doses after four months instead of six," President Ivan Duque said in a video message on Tuesday. He also added that people who have contracted the virus can get their jab 30 days after their isolation ends instead of six months after. In Bulgaria, new cases were at a record high of 7,062 on Wednesday, spurred by omicron. The Balkan nation, which is the European Union’s least inoculated member state, saw the previous peak in October amid the delta outbreak.  Daily coronavirus cases in Austria reached a record of 18,427 on Wednesday, newspaper Kronen Zeitung said. The rise comes amid a spread of the highly virulent omicron variant. Gerrmany's top court the Federal Court of Justice has ruled that commercial property tenants can be entitled to lower rents if they have been affected by a coronavirus lockdown. The court said the reduction would not be at a single level for every business — with all the circumstances of individual cases to be taken into account.  dvv/rt (AFP, AP, dpa, Reuters)