One of the major organizers of Sudan's anti-coup protests, the Sudanese Professionals' Association, refused an offer from the UN to mediate talks with the military on Sunday. The UN hopes to help broker a deal following a military coup last October. The UN envoy to Sudan Volker Perthes said talks were the "sustainable path forward towards democracy and peace," and called for an "end to the violence."  He claimed the process would be "inclusive," though protesters do not seek a power-sharing agreement but rather a return to civilian rule. Perthes plans a news conference for Monday where it is expected he will outline details of his proposal. The UN Security Council will meet Wednesday to discuss Sudan. Forces for Freedom and Change, the umbrella coalition for the groups behind the protests, said it had not received any details of Perthes' proposal. The UN's offer to mediate comes a week after the resignation of Prime Minister Abdalla Hamdok. He said the inability of the generals to compromise with protesters was behind his decision to step down. The Sudanese Professionals' Association sees Perthes as behind that arrangement, which they discredit as it sidelined pro-democracy forces, a position Hamdok similarly realized was untenable when he resigned. The protest organizers' rejection of the offer comes amid renewed protests Sunday, which are expected to continue. More than 60 people have been killed since the military took over. The Sudanese Professionals' Association said in a statement that the "only way" out of the crisis was through the removal of the generals from the seats of power in the country. The protest movement wants civilian leadership restored, underscored by the protest slogan, "No negotiations, no compromise, no power-sharing'' with the generals. The coup on October 25 came two years after mass protests led to the ouster of the country's previous long-running autocratic ruler, Omar al-Bashir. Together with youth groups known as Resistance Committees, the Sudanese Professionals' Association have buttressed the movement against military rule. On Sunday, protests in the capital Khartoum and other cities continued as thousands rallied against the country's military rulers. Activist Nazim Sirag told AFP news agency that security forces fired teargas at protesters near the presidential palace. One protester was injured when security forces opened fire in Khartoum's Bahri district. The Sudanese Doctors Committee said a teenage protester, Alaa el-din Adel, 17, passed away Sunday after succumbing to a wound to the neck during protests in Omdurman near Khartoum. His death marks 61 who have died since protests began, the doctors committee said. Healthcare workers in white coats also joined protests Sunday calling for security guarantees at hospitals which have been stormed by the government during protests. ar/wd (AFP, AP)