The usual glitz and glamour was absent during the Golden Globes on Sunday, with celebrities staying away and longtime broadcaster NBC not covering the event after complaints about a lack of diversity and the ethics policies of the Hollywood Foreign Press Association, which chooses the winners. New Zealand director Jane Campion became the second woman to helm a film that won the best drama film prize with her dark Western "The Power of the Dog," following Chloe Zhao's win last year with "Nomadland." Campion also scooped the best director award. Will Smith won the best actor in film drama prize for his role in "King Richard," a biopic about the father and coach of Venus and Serena Williams: Nicole Kidman took the best actress award for her portrayal of Hollywood icon Lucille Ball in "Being the Ricardos." Steven Spielberg's "West Side Story" remake was honored for best comedy or musical, and took home lead and supporting actress prizes for young stars Rachel Zegler and Ariana DeBose. Korean O Yeung-su won best supporting actor at the 79th awards for his role in the hit Netflix series, "Squid Game." Will Smith won for 'King Richard' "Pose" star Michaela Jae Rodriguez also became the first transgender woman to win a Golden Globe, taking the prize for best actress in a TV drama. She quickly took to social media to celebrate her triumph. "This is the door that is going to Open the door for many more young talented individuals," she wrote on Instagram. "They will see that a young Black Latina girl from Newark New Jersey who had a dream, to change the minds others would with love. Love wins." Among the other television awards, corporate family saga "Succession" took home the best drama award; and "Hacks," about a fading female comedian, was awarded best comedy. Netflix led all studios with four film awards. Michaela Jae Rodriguez and 20-year-old "West Side Story" lead Rachel Zegler were among the few star performers to acknowledge receipt of Golden Globes, which were announced via social media and a live blog. Controversy continues to rage around the film and TV showcase that began in 1943, after a February 2021 article published by the Los Angeles Times blasted the press organization behind the event for not having a single Black member on the 87-person body that hands out its awards. Tom Cruise has since handed back his three awards, while broadcaster NBC has again canceled its commitment to broadcast the gala. Netflix also ended its association with the event. In May, the Hollywood association voted for sweeping reforms pledging more diversity and transparency, including adding six Black members to the group of more than 100 journalists who decide the second-most important film awards ceremony (after the Academy Awards). "This has been a year of change and reflection," said Hollywood Foreign Press Association President Helene Hoehne during presentation of the nominations in Los Angeles last month. During the behind-closed-doors ceremony on Sunday, the association tweeted videos from Arnold Schwarzenegger and Jamie Lee Curtis praising the group's community work. "I'm proud to be associated with them in this venture," said Curtis, referring to funding by the assocation for community programs. With three wins apiece, "The Power of the Dog" and "West Side Story" confirmed that they will be hard to beat during the upcoming Oscars ceremony in March. Set in 1920s Montana, Jane Campion's anti-Western "Power of the Dog," starring Benedict Cumberbatch, was released by Netflix with a limited theatrical run. It has been widely praised by critics and already took home the Silver Lion for best film in Venice. Spielberg's "West Side Story" was also adored by critics, even if it flopped at the box office. And Kenneth Branagh's "Belfast," a coming-of-age film set amid sectarian violence in 1960s Northern Ireland, won best screenplay but picked up seven Globe nominations and is still considered a strong award-season contender. So near and yet so far: Comedians Tina Fey and Amy Poehler hosted the 78th Golden Globes from across the US. Fey was in front of the camera in New York, while Poehler co-hosted from Los Angeles. All award winners were digitally connected from their living rooms or hotels. "Nomadland," starring Oscar-winner Frances McDormand, won the award for best drama. The film is a modern road trip story, exploring the lives of modern nomads living out of RVs and vans in the US. It's one of the few movies that was made for the theaters. Its director, Chloe Zhao, became the first woman of Asian descent to win best director. The top comedy film winner was the Amazon production "Borat Subsequent Moviefilm." In it, British comedian Sacha Baron Cohen slipped into the role of Kazakh journalist Borat for the second time, holding a mirror to US society. In addition to the award for best comedy, Cohen also won best actor in a comedy. Director Chloe Zhao received the Golden Globes award for the best film director category for her work on "Nomadland." In doing so, she became only the second woman to win a Golden Globe in this category, 37 years after the award went to Barbra Streisand for "Yentl." Zhao's film had won the Golden Lion at the Venice International Film Festival in 2020. Is there still room in the trophy case of Emmy and Oscar-winning screenwriter and director Aaron Sorkin? Sorkin (left) won the Golden Globe for best screenplay for the film "The Trial of the Chicago 7," about a lawsuit against pacifists who demonstrated against the Vietnam War in 1968. In it, comedian Sacha Baron Cohen (right) plays a serious role, and was also rewarded with a nomination. In a sense, soul singer Andra Day (center) had already won big: She was discovered by Stevie Wonder and has received Grammy nominations for her music. In 2017, she covered a song by jazz legend Billie Holiday, making her the perfect choice to embody the legendary singer in the biopic "The United States vs. Billie Holiday." She won the Golden Globe for best actress in a drama. The award for Best Actor in a drama film provided one of the evening's most touching moments: Taylor Simone Ledward (right) accepted the award on behalf of her late-husband Chadwick Boseman, who died of cancer last year at age 43. Boseman played the role of Levee Green, a trumpeter in blues singer in "Ma" Rainey's band, in the Netflix jazz drama "Ma Rainey's Black Bottom." In the dark comedy "I Care a Lot," Rosamund Pike (left) plays Marla Grayson, a court-appointed guardian who preys on wealthy seniors and has built up a network of doctors and nursing homes that help her — until she meets her match. Pike won her first Golden Globe for best actress in a comedy. As in the directing and screenplay categories, the awards for best supporting roles are not divided into drama and comedy. For her portrayal of lawyer Nancy Hollander in "The Mauritanian," Jodie Foster was honored with a Golden Globe. The film is based on the Guantanamo diary of long-time prisoner Mohamedou Ould Slahi. The young German star Helena Zengel went away empty-handed. With the surprise success of the 2018 "Get Out," Daniel Kaluuya became a familiar name in Hollywood. For his role as civil rights activist and Black Panther member Fred Hampton in "Judas and the Black Messiah," Kaluuya received the award for best supporting actor. Hampton was shot by police officers in his sleep in 1969. The film "Minari," directed by Lee Isaac Chung, tells the story of a Korean family trying to start a new life farming in rural Arkansas in the 1980s. The film is based on Chung's own childhood, and won the Golden Globe for best foreign language film, although it is a US production. The Disney production "Soul" won the award for best animated film. It tells the story of a musician whose soul becomes detached from his body. It is the first film by animation company Pixar to feature an African-American protagonist; Jamie Foxx voices the lead role of jazz pianist Joe Gardner. The film also won a Golden Globe for best film score. Netflix productions garnered a whopping 42 nominations this year. One of the winners was the series "The Queen's Gambit," which won best limited series. It tells the story of ambitious chess genius Beth Harmon, who aims to become chess world champion in the male-dominated sport in the 1950s. Lead actress Anya-Taylor Joy also received the award for best actress in a limited series. One of the big winners of the evening was Netflix series "The Crown," a historical fiction based on the lives of the British royal family. In addition to taking home the award for best TV drama, Emma Corrin won best actress in a TV drama series for her role as Lady Di — beating out castmate Olivia Colman, who plays Queen Elizabeth II. Josh O'Connor, who plays Prince Charles, also won best actor. At the 2020 Emmy Awards, the comedy series "Schitt's Creek" won prizes in all major categories. Now series creator Eugene Levy (right) can also add a Golden Globe to his shelf. The series tells the story of a wealthy family who lose their fortune and move to the small town of Schitt's Creek. The Cecil B. DeMille Award is an honorary Golden Globe presented by the association for lifetime achievement. This year it went to actress and Oscar winner Jane Fonda, whose speech underscored the lack of diversity and inclusion in Hollywood. This came in light of the revelation that the Golden Globes awarding body had no Black members. Author: Torsten Landsberg sb/eg (Reuters, AFP)