A judge in the southern US state of Georgia sentenced three white men to life in prison on Friday for chasing and fatally shooting 25-year-old Ahmaud Arbery in February 2020. The father and son convicted in the case were handed life sentences without parole — while the third man was given a life sentence, but with a chance for parole The sentencing comes after the three men were found guilty in November of murdering Arbery, a Black man who had gone for a run in the neighborhood where he was killed. The case sparked national outrage — with Arbery's family urging the court to hand out the maximum sentence possible. Arbery's mother, Wanda Cooper-Jones, reacts as the judge reads out the sentencing for the three men convicted of murdering her son Judge Timothy Walmsley sentenced 66-year-old Greg McMichael, his 35-year-old son Travis McMichael, and their neighbor 52-year-old William "Roddie" Bryan, to life in prison — the mandatory sentence for being found guilty of the murder. The main question was whether any of the three men would have a chance to apply for eventual parole. The McMichaels were each given 20 additional years in prison on top of their life sentences — without parole. Bryan was sentenced to life in prison but was given the option of parole after serving 30 years. The judge said he gave Travis McMichael (center) and his father the harshest sentence possible due to their 'callous' words and actions that were caught on video In announcing his decision, the judge said the sentencing serves to hold the defendants "accountable." "It was a killing — and it was callous," he said, adding that Arbery's death happened because "confrontation was being sought" by the defendants. The lead prosecutor in the case, Linda Dunikoski, had earlier asked the judge to only extend the option for parole to Bryan. She said the McMichaels had shown no remorse for the killing and that the two had "a demonstrated pattern of vigilantism." Speaking in court ahead of the sentencing on Friday, Arbery's parents and sister urged for the maximum sentence, arguing that racial stereotypes led the defendants to chase and kill Arbery. "This wasn't a case of mistaken identity or mistaken fact. They chose to target my son because they didn't want him in their community. They chose to treat him differently than other people who frequently visited their community,'' said Arbery's mother, Wanda Cooper-Jones. "And when they couldn't sufficiently scare or intimidate him, they killed him.'' Arbery's sister, Jasmine, said her brother's killers perceived his Blackness as a threat, rather than simply as who he was — a young man out for a jog His father, Marcus Arbery, told the court that his son was killed while doing the thing he loved most — going for a run. "The man who killed my son has sat in this courtroom every single day next to his father. I'll never get that chance, to sit next to my son, ever again," Arbery said, referencing the McMichaels. His sister, Jasmine Arbery, celebrated her brother's life as a Black man. "He had dark skin that glistened in the sunlight like gold. He had curly hair; he would often like to twist it. He had a broad nose and the color of his eyes was filled with melanin," she said. "These are the qualities that made these men assume Ahmaud was a dangerous criminal. To me, those qualities reflected a young man full of life and energy who looked like me and the people I love." On February 23, 2020, Arbery went for a run in a neighborhood outside the Georgian city of Brunswick. After the McMichaels saw the 25-year-old jogging, they grabbed their guns and jumped in a pickup truck to pursue him. Their neighbor Bryan joined the chase in his own truck — and filmed the ensuing shooting on his cellphone. Travis McMichael fired on Arbery with a shotgun from close range after Arbery attempted to defend himself. The graphic video of the shooting of Arbery went viral on social media following his murder. It took police more than two months after the murder to arrest the McMichaels and Bryan, fueling outcry across the country and prompting Arbery's lawyers to say the 25-year-old had been racially profiled. Three months after the murder of Arbery, George Floyd, a 46-year-old Black man, was murdered by a white police officer in the Midwestern state of Minnesota, sparking nationwide Black Lives Matters protests against widespread racial injustice and police violence against African-Americans. rs/sms (AP, Reuters) Former police officer Derek Chauvin was found guilty of the murder of George Floyd. The Black man's brutal death in May 2020 had sparked a worldwide movement of solidarity that was expressed through protests and art. This mural features George Floyd's face and the words, "I can breathe now," a reference to his last words as Chauvin was kneeling on his neck: "I can't breathe." Black Lives Matter: In Minneapolis, George Floyd's murder was followed by violent protests against police brutality toward African Americans. On this wall on Hennepin Avenue, the city commemorates not only George Floyd, but also African Americans Eric Garner, Breonna Taylor, Tamir Rice and Philando Castile, who were also killed by police officers. George Floyd became a global figure, depicted in street art around the world. Here in Gaza City, a woman walks past a large mural linking Floyd to the Black Lives Matter movement. Chauvin, the police officer who pressed his knee on Floyd's neck, now faces up to 40 years in jail after being found guilty on all murder charges. Street art can also be used to mark a memorial site, as seen here in front of this painting of George Floyd, which was also set up in Minnesota in January 2021. Mourners left flowers and political messages in front of his portrait at the intersection of 38th Street and Chicago Avenue South, where Floyd died. A temporary Black Lives Matter mural in Manhattan, New York City, displays names of Black people who have been victims of police violence. The Black Lives Matter protests raged around the country in the summer of 2020, gathering hundreds of thousands of demonstrators. In the US capital, Washington, multiple murals commemorate the Black Lives Matter movement and show the faces of those who have died in connection with police brutality. The use of the patriotic colors, red, white and blue, is particularly striking here. This work of street art featuring George Floyd's face is located in Venezuela, in the town of Valencia. It was commissioned by the city's mayor. The microphone is a reminder that Floyd had also made a name for himself as a rapper. George Floyd died after a police officer pressed his knee on Floyd's neck on May 25, 2020. Throughout the 8-minute, 46-second incident, Floyd stated several times that he could not breathe. His last words were painted onto the artwork in Berlin's Mauerpark. In Cologne, Germany's fourth largest city, you can find this painting honoring the political struggle of the Black Lives Matter movement. In many major German cities in the summer of 2020, people took to the streets in solidarity with the BLM movement. Author: Christine Lehnen