Known today as the "Bayreuth of Chamber Music," Heimbach has long been a highlight of our Deutsche Welle Festival Concert series. The performance venue is quite unique: it's a stunning art nouveau hydroelectric power plant, and it's what gives the festival its name: "Spannungen," or "tensions." Our first piece is also the oldest piece in today's program: Franz Schubert's Rondo in B minor for violin and piano. Schubert wrote the piece in 1826, just two years before he died. His publisher spiced up the marketing a bit, adding the word "brilliant" to the printed score, as if to say, "Attention all virtuosos: Play this piece, and you'll really shine." Like many other music festivals that took place in 2021, the Heimbach chamber music festival had to do without a live public. This is not an easy situation for the performers, as pianist Aris Alexander Blettenberg explains. "It's rather horrible to have to sit onstage and take a bow in that empty hall. Our colleagues are standing behind us, watching us, and of course, they're fully supporting us. But we need that very special atmosphere that can only be created by an audience. That gives us more inspiration, and it leads to an exchange, to communication. This is obviously missing right now." The next piece featured in this recording is by Nino Rota. Rota, who was born in Milan in 1911 and died in Rome in 1979, is primarily known as a composer of film music. He wrote over 150 film scores, many for very famous movies, including ones directed by fellow Italians Federico Fellini and Luchino Visconti. In 1975, Rota won an Oscar for his unforgettable film score to "The Godfather Part II." Since opening to the public, Elbphilharmonie — Hamburg's Elbe Philharmonic Hall — has quickly become a magnet for visitors. A total of 15 million people have flocked to the city's new cultural landmark. With concert tickets selling out quickly, many have visited purely to experience the venue's breathtaking architecture. The Elbphilharmonie, affectionately known as Elphi, sits atop a former brick warehouse once used for storing cocoa. The concert hall's sail-like exterior is covered in some 16,000 square meters of glass paneling — equivalent in size to two football pitches. The building was designed by Swiss architecture firm Herzog & de Meuron. A funnel-shaped, 50-ton sound reflector hangs suspended from the ceiling of the Great Hall. Its job is to bounce acoustic waves back to the stage and optimize overall acoustics. The contraption also houses lights and technical equipment. This 2015 picture shows the Great Hall and acoustic reflector still under construction. What is not visible, meanwhile, is its high-end sound proofing. The hall is contained within its very own cocoon, fully isolated from the building's exterior walls. This prevents outside noise from leaking in. This curved escalator, 82 meters (269 feet) in length, transports visitors from the main entrance up to the 6th floor viewing platform. Riding the longest escalator in Western Europe takes exactly 150 seconds. Since the coronavirus outbreak began, an ultraviolet light device has been installed to disinfect the handrails. On select days in September, October and November 2021, the Elbphilharmonie was converted into a temporary vaccination center. Jabs were administered in the otherwise inaccessible backstage area. Afterwards, patients could settle down and relax on the Great Hall stage. It was described as "Hamburg's most spectacular vaccination center." The building boats a spacious outdoor viewing terrace offering magnificent views of Hamburg and its bustling port. A sophisticated bird deterrent system, emitting ultrasonic waves inaudible to humans, keeps pigeons and other birds away. Their droppings, after all, are not just an eyesore, but can pose health risks as well. After closing due to the coronavirus pandemic, the Elbphilharmonie viewing platform reopened in May 2021. Some 10 million guests had visited by summer 2019. Anyone eager to head up these days must book tickets well in advance, as operators are keen to avoid overcrowding. Guest are urged to maintain a safe distance from others, and are obliged to don face masks. The Elbphilharmonie also houses the Westin Hamburg, a five-star hotel. Its 200 rooms and almost 40 suites are spread across 21 floors. One night in the lavish 162-square-meter (1,744-square-foot) Eigner Suite will set you back €3,000 (about $3,500). But for that, you'll have no less than two bathrooms, a sauna, a compact kitchen — and breathtaking panoramic views of the city. The extravagant edifice houses not only concert halls and a hotel, but also more than 40 apartments. In 2018, the last remaining penthouse, a luxurious 290-square-meter residence, was sold to an anonymous buyer for some €11 million. It is located on the building's western tip. Distinguished violinists, pianists, opera singers, conductors and orchestras regularly grace the Elbphilharmonie. So far, Anne-Sophie Mutter, Helene Grimaud, Jonas Kaufmann, Daniel Barenboim and many others have performed here. So, too, have legendary experimental band Einstürzende Neubauten (pictured) and indie-rock icons The National. Here's to many more years of eclectic live performances! Author: Benjamin Restle Further below on our playlist is British composer Ralph Vaughan Williams' song cycle, "On Wenlock Edge" – a setting of various poems from Alfred Edward Housman's collection "A Shropshire Lad." Vaughan Williams' music radiates melancholy from beginning to end, matching the mood of Housman's texts. In Vaughan Williams' piece, nature and outdoor landscapes symbolize the inner world of the lyrical first-person narrator. Unlike the German Lieder, or concert song tradition, in which the singer is usually only accompanied by a pianist, Vaughan Williams also included a string quartet alongside the piano. He needed these instruments' colors to really sketch out the landscapes in the piece, says English tenor Ian Bostridge: "I think he's very good at conveying a feeling for landscape and for space and for the feeling of being outside. So particularly the first song, which is stormy, so you have the feeling in the instruments of wind, and it's very effective, the string writing for that... So it's a wonderful, evocative writing." After 32 festival days and 25 performances, the 2021 Bayreuth Festival came to an end on August 25 with a celebrated concert by the festival orchestra with Andris Nelsons conducting. Even though the COVID safety plan meant only 900 Wagner fans could attend instead of the usual 2,000, it still sent a positive signal to the world after the canceled 2020 festivities. One woman stood at the center of the 2021 festival: Oksana Lyniv. The Ukrainian was the first woman to conduct atop Green Hill, where Wagner's opera house stands. With assuredness and precision, Lyniv seamlessly overcame the troublesome acoustics. Her conducting of the year's premiere, "The Flying Dutchman," was enthusiastically applauded. She also earned praise from her musical colleagues. Also praised was the Latvian soprano Asmik Grigorian (right, in yellow), who made her Bayreuth debut as Senta in "The Flying Dutchman." While the staging by Russian director Dmitri Tcherniakov controversially turned a tale of redemption into a small-town crime story, critics gushed that Grigorian's singing itself was a type of redemption. Recognition must also go to Katharina Wagner. The opera director and great-granddaughter of Richard Wagner has been leading the Bayreuth Festival since 2014. During the course of the coronavirus pandemic, the 43-year-old fell gravely ill and spent multiple months in a coma. It was only in October 2020 that she returned to work and put together an impressive program in a short amount of time. In 2019, in an early rehearsal for Wagner's "Tannhäuser" directed by Tobias Kratzer, mezzo-soprano Ekaterina Gubanova seriously injured her leg and had to miss her debut as Venus. It was a shock for the Russian singer — but also a warning sign: "I was simply doing too much, life was too fast." She finally got to her enjoy her belated Bayreuth debut as Venus, sexy costume and all, this year. The 34-year-old Norwegian singer is the festival's great hope — one could even say the hope of the whole Wagner world. She wowed audiences as Elisabeth in "Tannhäuser," and her role as Sieglinde in next year's new Ring production is eagerly anticipated. Above is a scene from "Tannhäuser" with Davidsen alongside actor Manni Laudenbach. For years, German Chancellor Angela Merkel has been a Bayreuth Festival regular. This year she met with cast members of "The Flying Dutchman" after its premiere. Her 2021 festival attendance marked one of her last major public appearances as chancellor. Nevertheless, the opera lover and her husband, Joachim Sauer, will likely return to the Green Hill after she leaves office. Author: Anastassia Boutsko Let's move on to eastern Europe now. Our collection today includes a compositionby the Romanian George Enescu: his violin sonata No. 3. Enescu wrote the piece in 1926 in Paris. The folk music of his homeland, Romania, played a major role in his compositional style. He noted his third violin sonata with the subheading, "dans le caractère populaire roumain," which literally means, "in the Romanian popular character." In other words, the piece isn't just supposed to be performed in the style of Romanian folk music; it's supposed to contain its essence. The work has rhapsodic and mystical song-like melodies and rustic dance rhythms, and it shows his masterful ability to create endlessly diverse timbres. Another featured piece in this edition is Johannes Brahms' quintet No. 1 in F major. Brahms wrote the piece in the town of Bad Ischl, Austria, which is near Salzburg. You can really picture an alpine meadow when you hear this music. That's all for this edition of DW Festival Concert with Cristina Burack. Drop us a line with feedback anytime at music@dw.com. We have more exciting performances waiting for you in the next Deutsche Welle Festival Concert. Performances featured in this DW Festival Concert: 1. Composer: Franz Schubert, Rondo brilliant for violin and piano in B minor, op. 70, D.895 Performed by: Christian Tetzlaff, violin Aris Alexander Blettenberg, piano 2. Composer: Nino Rota, Trio for clarinet, cello and piano Performed by: Sharon Kam, clarinet Tanja Tetzlaff, cello Aris Alexander Blettenberg, piano 3. Composer: Ralph Vaughan Williams, "On Wenlock Edge," song cycle for tenor, piano and string quartet, with poetry from Alfred Edward Housman's "A Shropshire Lad" Selections: "On Wenlock Edge," "Is my team ploughing?" "Oh, when I was in love with you," "Bredon Hill," "Clun" Performed by: Ian Bostridge, tenor Saskia Giorgini, piano Florian Donderer, violin Anna Reszniak, violin Jan Larsen, viola DW Festival Concert host Cristina Burack Tanja Tetzlaff, cello 4. Composer: George Enescu, Violin sonata No. 3 in A minor, op. 25 Performed by: Elisabeth Kufferath, violin Saskia Giorgini, piano 5. Composer: Johannes Brahms, String quintet No. 1 in F major, op. 88 Performed by: Byol Kang, violin Florian Donderer, violin Elisabeth Kufferath, viola Jan Larsen, viola Gustav Rivinius, cello All music recorded by Deutschlandfunk (DLF) at the Heimbach Spannungen Chamber Music Festival in the Heimbach hydroelectric power plant on June 23, 2021 Edited by: Manasi Gopalakrishnan