Polls opened in Portugal Sunday in a snap election that polls suggest will be a tight election with no party expected to win a parliamentary majority. The opposition center-right Social Democratic Party (PSD) party saw last minute gains in the polls, eroding support of the ruling Socialists, though both parties remain in a statistical dead heat. Polls opened at 8:00 a.m. (0800 GMT) and will remain open throughout Sunday into the evening, when they close at 8:00 p.m. Some 285,000 voters cast their ballots early on January 23. Exit poll results are expected a few hours after polls close. Approximately 10% of the electorate remains undecided according to the latest polls prior to the vote. Analysts have said the outcome of the vote is anyone's guess as the country of 10 million votes. Additionally, more than one-tenth of the country is estimated to be isolating due to COVID-19 concerns. Authorities have granted permission for the infected to go to the polls but requested that they do so in the final hours before polls close. Prime Minister Antonio Costa of the Socialist Party told the crowd at a campaign rally in the country's second city Oporto Friday, "Portugal needs stability after these two difficult years of fighting against the pandemic." Fellow European Socialist leaders such as Spain's Prime Minister Pedro Sanchez and Germany's Chancellor Olaf Scholz lent their support to Costa during the campaign. Scholz called Costa a "tireless defender of social justice." Costa's government has rolled back austerity measures, held to budgets and reduced unemployment to the level it was at prior to the COVID-19 pandemic. Opposition leader Rui Rio of the PSD challenges Costa's handle on the economy and says further expansion is needed. Rio has called for cuts to corporate tax rates. The election Sunday comes after two far-left parties switched sides and joined with right-wing parties in rejecting the 2022 draft budget put forward by Costa last October. Burned by that vote, should the Socialists win the most votes but fail to gain a majority, Costa said he will govern as a minority party and seek support from other parties on a case-by-case basis. Lisbon University politics professor Antonio Costa Pinto said that governing in such a way would unlikely last until the term expires in 2026. Far-right party Chega, meaning "Enough," could emerge as the third largest party in parliament after entering during the last vote in 2019 with a single seat. Portugal faces another weak government as an outcome of the vote. The country's tourism-dependent economy has been hurt by the ongoing COVID-19 pandemic, key challenges that will confront the country's next ruling coalition. Portugal will receive €16.6 billion ($18.7 billion) in recovery funds from the EU by 2026. The next government will be tasked with maximizing the effectiveness of these funds. ar/aw (AFP, dpa, Reuters)