Russia's dramatic recent escalation in eastern Ukraine on Monday has had major consequences for Germany's foreign policy. Chancellor Olaf Scholz's immediate reaction — to put Nord Stream 2 on hold — was itself an awkward U-turn for the chancellor who has not yet been in office for three months. At the start of his time in office in December, he was describing the gas pipeline in the Baltic Sea — recently completed but not yet online — as a purely private economic project, even though it is owned by a company that the Russian state has a controlling stake in. On Tuesday morning, Nord Stream 2 proved to be the political tool that many — especially the US government — had always seen it as. With the Kremlin's move the policies of Scholz's predecessor Angela Merkel also lie in ruins. Following the annexation of Crimea in 2014, Merkel invested much time and effort into putting the Minsk Protocols into place: joining France in efforts to mediate between Russia and Ukraine. "What is in ruins now is Minsk, and that is a large part of Germany's Russia policy," said Thomas Kunze, head of the Moscow office of the Konrad Adenauer Foundation — an institution affiliated with the Merkel's center-right Christian Democratic Union (CDU). "Germany, the former chancellor, the current chancellor have all been working hard to implement Minsk. Now, with Russia's decision, that is no longer possible." The hope for peace seems slim now, Kunze added, but there is no other course than try to restart the negotiations: "That is difficult. And today it sounds a bit utopian, but there is no alternative," he told DW." And the format of France, Russia, Ukraine and Germany is a format that could and should continue to play a role." The latest reactions reflect fluctuations in Germany's policy towards Russia that reach back for decades. Gustav Gressel, senior policy fellow at the Berlin office of the European Council on Foreign Relations (ECFR), described the psychological roots of Germany's political and cultural ties to Russia. "The Russia-centeredness rested on two main motives," he told DW in an email. "First, guilt from World War II [that was started by Germany and cost tens of millions of Russian lives] and the longing for historic reconciliation, and secondly on sympathy for Russia based on a common sense of victimhood and being deprived of historical rights by the the Western Allies who won WWI." German Chancellor Helmut Kohl (second from the right) was very friendly both with Russian President Mikhail Gorbachev and his successor Boris Yelzin Nevertheless, the Federal Republic's first chancellor, Konrad Adenauer, drove a hostile policy towards Communist Eastern Europe, and worked hard to orientate West Germany towards the West. That was mitigated by Social Democrat Chancellor Willy Brandt (1969-1974) whose famous "Ostpolitik" aimed to normalize relations with the Communist-ruled eastern countries. "The concept of Ostpolitik has changed its form numerous times since it was coined by Willy Brandt in 1969," said Rafael Loss, foreign and security policy specialist at the European Council on Foreign Relations (ECFR). "He wanted to establish productive relations and overcome the historical burden that Germany had accumulated with the terror of the Second World War. But Willy Brandt was only able to pursue his kind of Ostpolitik because Germany was so integrated into the Euro-Atlantic political West." The idea of hoping to soften the Soviet Union with friendship took hold under both Brandt and his successor Helmut Schmidt. It was a policy summed up by a phrase coined by one of Brandt's most influential Cabinet ministers, Egon Bahr: "change through rapprochement." The 1980s and 1990s, meanwhile, may have been the highpoint of German-Russian relations, when Chancellor Helmut Kohl enjoyed and increasingly fruitful relationship with Soviet leader Mikhail Gorbachev. That led to various deals ensuring that Russian troops left East Germany after the Fall of the Berlin Wall in 1989. But more recently, the German government's eagerness to bind closer economic ties to Russia (often called "Wandel durch Handel," or "change through trade") has been beneficial "both in economic and energy terms," according to Rafael Loss. "Germany benefitted from fairly cheap energy over the last 20 years," he said. Vladimir Putin and Germany's former Chancellor Gerhard Schröder are on very friendly terms But economic rapprochement has also led to more embarrassing developments: Former SPD Chancellor Gerhard Schröder spent much his last few months in office ensuring that  Nord Stream deals would be in place to bring Russian gas to Germany. He later joined the boards of the companies operating the pipeline. Most of the dovish policies have crumbled in the face of Putin's militarism, however. And Germany's influence on Russia now appears much weaker than it once was. "I think the possibilities for influence [on Russia] are small," said Johannes Varwick, political scientist and professor of international relations at the University of Halle. "What we can do now is to try to stabilize Ukraine politically and economically as best we can. But that, too, is probably a battle that we will have to lose for the time being, because Russia is, of course, doing everything it can to destabilize Ukraine." Edited by: Rina Goldenberg Olaf Scholz, took over as German chancellor, after having served as finance minister and vice chancellor for three years. The conservative and soft-spoken Social Democrats displays stoicism and unwavering self-confidence. The former mayor of Hamburg looks back on a decades-long political career, which included a number of upsets, none of which have been able to throw him off course. Angela Merkel was elected Germany’s first female chancellor. Through her pragmatic style of leadership, she successfully sidelined competitors within her party and navigated through numerous crises over 16 years in government. After Helmut Kohl’s fourth term in office, German voters were in a mood for change. Gerhard Schröder became chancellor in the first coalition between the SPD and the Greens. For the first time, German armed forces were deployed abroad under a NATO mandate, including to Afghanistan. Schröder's reorganization of the welfare system, the so-called Agenda 2010, became a real test for his party. His term lasted a record 16 years. For many years, Helmut Kohl was seen as sitting things out, in an unflinching, patient style, with no particular interest in big reforms. But his big historic achievement stands in stark contrast to this: German reunification and reconstruction of the former GDR. Kohl was not only the Chancellor of German Unity — he also pushed for further European integration. Helmut Schmidt took over as chancellor after his fellow party member Willy Brandt resigned. He had to deal with the oil crisis, inflation and economic stagnation. Schmidt’s style was fact-oriented and efficient. He took a hard stance towards left-wing extremist group Red Army Faction (RAF), rejecting its demands. He had to step down as a result of a no-confidence vote in parliament. Social upheaval in Germany led to a change in politics, with Willy Brandt becoming the first Social Democratic chancellor. When he kneeled before the memorial in the former Warsaw Ghetto, it was a historic gesture of seeking forgiveness for Nazi cruelty and a sign of reconciliation. He was awarded the Nobel Peace Prize in 1971 for his contribution to easing tensions with countries in the east. Kurt Georg Kiesinger forged Germany’s first grand coalition between the CDU and SPD. The government managed to add new impetus to the country’s stagnating economy. Youth took to the streets after the government introduced emergency laws, giving the state special rights in case of crisis, beginning the student movement. Kiesinger’s role under Nazi rule was hotly debated in Germany. In 1963, the CDU urged 87-year-old Adenauer to step down. Ludwig Erhard was chosen as his successor, having earned some popularity as minister of economics. He supported social economics and become the "father" of the west-German economic boom. He was rarely seen without a cigar in his mouth and is said to have smoked 15 per day. In 1966, Erhard stepped down as chancellor. Konrad Adenauer was the first German chancellor. During his term in office, the young federal republic became a sovereign state, with foreign policies looking towards the west. His style of governing was seen as authoritarian. Adenauer was from the Rhineland region and pushed for Bonn to become the German capital. But he was never a great fan of the Rhineland's popular Carnival tradition. Author: DW Staff While you're here: Every Tuesday, DW editors round up what is happening in German politics and society. You can sign up here for the weekly email newsletter Berlin Briefing.