Storm Ylenia hit northern Germany in the early hours of Thursday morning. With a wind speed of up to 152 kilometers per hour recorded by the German Meteorological Service (DWD) on the highest peak of the Harz mountains during early hours, German authorities warned people against venturing outside during the day. Authorities recommended staying indoors and keeping a distance from buildings, scaffoldings and power lines. It asked people to watch out for branches and roof tiles that could potentially dangerously hurt them. The General German Automobile Club (ADAC) advised people against driving. The stormy winds stood to affect mostly northern states like North Rhine-Westphalia and Mecklenburg-Western Pomerania, according to the weather service. DWD expects the storm to subside by late afternoon and to be more over the North Sea and Baltic coasts by then. Still, gusts of winds up to 120 kilometers per hour (74 mph) are expected in the Harz mountains and in the highlands near the Czech-German border. Powerful winds uprooted trees and blew away roof tiles as fire brigade and police control centers sprang to action in several cities. No major damage has been reported yet. DWD predicts low-scale storms at the beginning of next week as well. Here are the latest developments as Storm Ylenia hits Germany: Germany's national rail operator Deutsche Bahn (DB) announced Thursday morning it was canceling long-distance trains in several, and mostly northern states, like Lower Saxony, Bremen, Hamburg, Schleswig-Holstein, Mecklenburg-Western Pomerania, Berlin and Brandenburg. In Lower Saxony, all trains were canceled because of damage from the storm to the south of Hamburg, DB said in a live blog it introduced to keep peole updated on rail services. Disruptions are expected until Saturday, DB said. Passengers who had bought tickets for the affected period will be able to use them again until February 26, or cancel them free of charge. Similar goodwill arrangements have also been put in place, where people can cancel seat reservations free of charge. Train delays at Bielefeld central railway station, North Rhine-Westphalia DB tweeted that fallen trees were to blame for disruptions, saying that one fell on the track between Bremen and Hamburg on Thursday morning, and another between Dortmund and Münster on Wednesday evening. Both lines had been cleared, but bad weather caused delays on train routes. Lufthansa canceled 20 flights and announced there would be delays because of bad weather. The German airline asked people to check their flight status before traveling. Fire departments were put on high alert nationwide and Berlin's fire brigade declared a state of emergency early Thursday morning because of a surge in calls for their services. Several volunteer fire brigades were put to action in Berlin as some neighborhoods like Lichterfelde reported fallen trees on cars. There have been no reports of injuries from Berlin thus far. Authorities warned people against entering parks or forests in big cities. Zoos were to remain closed in cities like Berlin, Wuppertal (North Rhine-Westphalia), Magdeburg (Saxony-Anhalt). Water inundated streets in Schleswig-Holstein, Germany's northernmost state, by early Thursday morning, with levels rising more than 1.5 meters (4.9 feet) above average level. Elbe river waters rose to 1.5 to 2 meters more than normal. But the storm surge was expected to be over by 5 a.m., with floodwaters expected to be highest in the port city of Hamburg. Flooded streets of Hamburg Germany's most populous state, North Rhine-Westphalia (NRW), announced a shuttering of schools for Thursday. The state government advised parents to look after their children at home, especially if they sent kids to daycare centers. Warnings of falling stones outside Cologne Cathedral were put up on the eve of the storms Others states like Lower Saxony also canceled classes, while Bremen moved classes online. A coronavirus testing station in the western German town of Kleve did not manage to withstand the storm. The wind destroyed the tent of the drive-in test center, German daily Bild cited firefighters as saying. According to firefighters, no-one was injured. Storm Kyrill wreaked havoc across Germany in 2007. It was Germany's most expensive storm since 2002, according to the GDV. Payouts for damaged caused by the storm amounted to €3 billion ($3.3 billion). Storm Jeanette was Germany's second most expensive storm since 2002, according to the GDV. Jeanette blew across Germany in 2002 and caused €1.3 billion ($1.4 billion) of damage. The storm also claimed a number of lives. Storm Friederike hit Germany in 2018. The storm is estimated to have cost a total of €1 billion in damage, making it Germany's third most expensive storm since 2002, according to GDV information. The GDV calculated that storm Xynthia is the fourth most expensive storm for insurers in the country since 2002. Ferocious winds from the storm caused damages of €760 million ($822 million) in 2010. Storm Niklas is Germany's fifth most expensive storm, as based on insurance claims. A total of €750 million ($811 million) in damages were claimed from German insurers after Niklas swept across the country in 2015. Storm Sabine is the sixth most expensive storm to hit Germany since 2002. Despite causing widespread disruption to transport as well as power cuts to thousands of homes, the GDV is expecting claims for storm damage to amount to just €675 million ($730 million). Author: Kate Martyr sdi, rm/jsi (AFP, dpa)