Scotland is well known for its cloudy days and constant rain. One hundred and seventy million years ago, it was much warmer and tropical ― and it had huge reptiles with a wingspan of 2.5 meters (8.2 feet) soaring the skies. That's what researchers learned from a fossil that was discovered on the Isle of Skye, in northwest Scotland. The findings were published in Current Biology earlier this week and describe the biggest pterosaur from the Middle Jurassic period discovered so far. The skull piece and the rest of the skeleton in lime stone The new species is called Dearc sgiathanach pronounced "jark ski-an-ack," which is a Scottish Gaelic name meaning both "winged reptile! and "reptile from Skye." The discovery is "a superlative Scottish fossil," Stephen Brusatte told DW. The paleontologist at the University of Edinburgh led the National Geographic Society-funded expedition that found "Jark" back in 2017. He was referring to the state of preservation of the fossil, "far beyond any pterosaur ever found in Scotland and probably the best British skeleton found since the days of Mary Anning in the early 1800s," he said. Anning was a famous English paleontologist from the first half of the 19th century who discovered many fossils, including the first pterosaur skeleton outside of Germany. What pterosaurs could have looked like Pterosaurs, or pterodactyls as they are commonly known, were flying reptiles that existed from the Late Triassic, which was around 228 million years ago, to the end of the Cretaceous, 66 million years ago, when an asteroid wiped out almost all life on Earth. Pterosaurs were the first vertebrates to fly. For those who grew up with the movie series "The Land Before Time," they may be already familiar, since Petrie, one of the main characters, was a Pterosaur. Even though their name might suggest it, pterosaurs are not dinosaurs. They are close cousins that evolved on a different branch of the reptile family tree. Before the discovery of this fossil, scientists used to think that pterosaurs were rarely bigger than 1.6 meters during the Triassic and the Jurassic, Brusatte said, but "now we know they were capable of getting much bigger." Amelia Penny at the fossil's site shortly after finding it The fossil was spotted in 2017 by then-PhD student Amelia Penny at the shores of the Isle of Skye, at a place known as Brothers' Point. She saw part of the jaw and teeth protruding from a lime stone. Brusatte said team members became excited when they found out that it wasn't just a skull but a whole skeleton. He said it was a challenge to free the fossil from the rock, because the tide was rising quickly, so they had to wait until midnight, when the water had receeded, to finish cutting the fossil out of the rock. The team had to leave the find overnight until members were ready to carry out the full excavation the next morning, Brusatte said, praying that no one would stumble into the precious fossil. Natalia Jagielska, lead author of the paper, told DW that another thing that makes this fossil so rare is that it's already hard to find any Middle Jurassic fossils, but it's even harder to find pterosaurs. "They are very rarely preserved in the fossil record," Jagielska said. "They are very very delicate, have very thin bones and get crushed." So what might D. sgiathanach have looked like? Although the degree of preservation was remarkable, the fossil still had many missing parts. That's why, Jagielska said, it took detective and forensic work to get an idea of its appearance. The team used a lot of other pterosaur fossils from many different museums to fill in the blanks and complete the puzzle. Natalia Jagielska with the historic find Jagielska, who is also an illustrator, described the pterosaur as a creature with four legs and a 2.5-meter wingspan — close to that of an albatross. Its forearms were modified into wings and much larger than its hindlegs, and it had four fingers, with the fourth one being very elongated to extend its membranous wings, similar to modern bats. It also had a long tail for balance and very sharp teeth, most likely for fish catching. A deeper look into its skull revealed that it probably had good eyesight and a very good sense of balance, "both features very helpful for a flying animal," Jagielska said. And: The skeleton didn't belong to an adult. When analyzing bone slices under the microscope, the Scottish researchers found out that D. sgiathanach was still growing. The team at the National Museums Scotland with the fossil. From left to right: Stephen Brusatte, Dugie Ross (who freed the skeleton from the rock with a diamond saw), Amelia Penny and Natalia Jagielska. Jagielska said she wanted people who see the fossil on display at the National Museum of Scotland to take a moment and think about the fact that they are looking at the remains of an animal that was flying over Scotland 170 million years ago, "preserved with many of the features it had when living." Edited by: Carla Bleiker Paleontologists unearthed this huge fossil in the East Midlands, England. It is the biggest and best preserved fossil of an ichthyosaur ever found in Britain. In February 2021, the Anglian Water utility planned to landscape the banks of the reservoir in the Rutland Water Nature Reserve. Water was drained, and a spit of land emerged. While taking a closer look at the drained lagoon with a colleague, conservation team leader Joe Davis came across round objects sticking out of the mud. His colleague thought they were just old clay pipes, but Davis had a hunch. Dean Lomax, a paleontologist and passionate ichthyosaur expert (third from right) and his team began to dig. Piece by piece, they uncovered one bone after another in the course of August, eventually uncovering the spectacular specimen. It soon become clear that the fossil was an ichthyosaur. A number of skeletons of these marine animals have been found in Britain. The first was found in 1811 by 12-year-old Mary Anning and her brother. The Rutland specimen is particularly well preserved. The paleontologists continued their painstaking excavation. The photo shows the tail end of the animal, amazingly well preserved for its age. Ichthyosaurs lived about 90 to 250 million years ago. Paleontologists estimate the age of this specimen at about 180 million years. The true extent of this ichthyosaur emerged bit by bit. The body of the marine animal is about 10 meters long, about the length of a blue whale. Other marine animals probably had great respect for the ichthyosaur. The massive skull of the fossil alone weighs about a ton. The specimen may look like a flattened saltwater crocodile but the predator was likely much more elegant when it was roaming the seas. The creature may seem to be smiling in the above image, but ichthyosaurs were predators. Adult animals preyed on vertebrates including turtles and birds, and probably also on smaller ichthyosaurs. Smaller ichthyosaurs also ate shellfish, which paleontologists learned from analyzing the stomach contents of fossils. Author: Fabian Schmidt