Russia's envoy to the European Union, Vladimir Chizhov, has rejected suggestions that his country is about to attack Ukraine. The New York Times cited a US intelligence source as saying that Moscow was discussing this Wednesday (February 16) as a date for military action in Ukraine, which Chizhov denied in remarks published in German newspaper Die Welt. "As far as Russia is concerned, I can assure you that there will be no attack this Wednesday," Chizhov told Die Welt. "There will be no escalation in the coming week either, or in the week after that, or in the coming month." "Wars in Europe rarely start on a Wednesday," Chizhov added. Moscow's ambassador to Brussels made similar comments in December. Since then US officials have said their intelligence shows Russia could be planning to attack Ukraine before the end of the Winter Olympics on February 20. A war always plays on people’s vulnerabilities, civil societies’ shortcomings and influences freedom of speech and democracy. And even after eight years of war, Ukrainian society stays calm and mobilizes itself. There is a new sense of unity. According to a poll, every third Ukrainian would fight to protect Ukraine’s integrity against a Russian invasion. How to stay objective during a crisis? What constitutes unbiased and balanced coverage? How to uncover problems in Ukraine and not be viewed as a Kremlin agent? These and more questions dominate the work in UA:PBC’s newsroom. Angelina says: “We know what is right or wrong professionally, we know what is fact and what is opinion and we produce our output accordingly!” In a time of crisis, an independent public broadcaster is essential. Ukraine has a crowded media market, but even a small independent media outlet could influence change. Step by step, the public broadcaster UA:PBC is broadening its audience and building trust. “It is always important to have someone working in the interest of the whole Ukrainian society,” says Angelina Kariakina. For many young professionals in Ukraine, journalism is a transitional job: inadequate pay and the threat of war detract from the profession. Some are headhunted by oligarch-supported media, or they feel they have to quit and find a better-paid job to support their families. Before the pandemic’s second wave, the newsroom team was finally able to meet in person. Being able to talk face-to-face helped critical decision-making. But now, with the second COVID-19 wave underway, the team again is split into shifts, with many journalists working from home. Everyone responsible for radio and TV works from the newsroom. The newsgathering team looks at important daily topics and decides which ones to cover. There are producers in touch with government authorities, as well as 22 regional offices. But the most valuable stories are the ones directly pitched from the public because those lead to immediate communication and engagement with the audience. Chizhov condemned the US allegations of a possible invasion of Ukraine. "When you make allegations, especially very serious allegations against Russia, you also have a responsibility to present evidence. Otherwise it's slander," Chizhov said. "So where's the evidence?" Chizhov asked. He urged the West to take Russia's security concerns seriously, saying "when our partners finally listen to our legitimate concerns, a process of detente will not be long in coming." "That would be in the interest of all Europeans from Lisbon to Vladivostok, but also of all other nations in the world," he added. Russia has demanded that NATO restrict activities in Eastern Europe and promise not to give Ukraine membership in the alliance. The Kremlin has also demanded a ban on deploying weapons systems off Russia's borders. sdi/jsi (dpa)