Growing tensions between Russia and Ukraine are affecting much of the sports world, including basketball. The EuroLeague game between Bayern Munich and CSKA Moscow was scheduled to be played on Thursday, but was postponed — a decision backed by both the club and its fans. Bayern Munich's General Manager Marko Pesic told DW that, while this is a difficult situation, the club fully supports the postponement of the game. "On this sad day, it was very difficult to focus on a game of sports," Pesic said. "I think it was the right decision not to play." Claudia Zirngibl is the chairman of BIGREDS, the only official Bayern Munich basketball fan club. Zirngibl told DW that, although she believes sports and politics should remain separate, in this instance it was the right decision to postpone the game. "It's very difficult — usually sports should remain neutral," Zirngibl said. "But this is a very unique situation. Many people are very scared at the moment, and this is not the right time to put our attention to sports when there are more important things." This year, the EuroLeague consists of 18 clubs from 10 countries, including CSKA Moscow, UNICS Kazan and Zenit St. Petersburg. All three games involving Russian teams on Thursday were postponed, but the rest of the schedule went ahead as planned. Ukrainian referee Boris Ryzhik was in charge of Olympiacos' game against Olimpia Milano, and held a simple sign to the cameras before tipoff. Former Bundesliga player Pesic emphasized that Bayern's opponents did not play a role in the decision. "We have a great relationship with CSKA Moscow," Pesic said. "Their players and coaches have got nothing to do with the situation, I just want to make that very clear." Bayern fans were united on the ruling, with Zirngibl saying members of the fan club were unanimously behind the decision to postpone the match. Some even threatened to boycott future competitions had Bayern played the game. "Some of them said: 'If Bayern aren't sending a clear message here, I am not attending any future games of the club.' I also really liked the decision by Telekom not to broadcast the game," Zirngibl said. Earlier in the day, German broadcaster "Magenta TV" announced they wouldn’t broadcast the game, with the channel’s Senior Vice President Michael Schuld asking fans for understanding on "a sad day for Europe." The 18 EuroLeague clubs, together with competition CEO Jordi Bertomeu, will meet remotely on February 25 to reach an agreement on the immediate future of this year's competition.