In this episode, we're at the Beethovenfest in Bonn, listening to a concert that took place on September 9, 2021. We'll hear both early and late works by Beethoven, including his incomparable "Pastoral" symphony. We'll also hear the world premiere of a contemporary piece by Austrian composer Georg Friedrich Haas, and we'll learn about its surprisingly intimate connection to Beethoven. The evening's musicians included the Basel Chamber Orchestra, violinist Carolin Widmann, and conductor Sylvain Cambreling. We'll first hear them performing two early works by Beethoven: his "romances" for violin and orchestra, written around the turn of the 19th century. Violinist Carolin Widmann performed Beethoven's Romance for Violin and Orchestra No. 2 in F major, accompanied by the Basel Chamber Orchestra with Sylvain Cambreling conducting. Beethoven is thought to have composed it in 1802. He wrote his Romance No. 1 a few years earlier, in 1798. We don't know who he wrote both the romances for or the context that surrounded their composition. There's no apparent event or impetus that led to their creation. Nevertheless, Widmann is a big fan of the romances. "I love them because for me, these two miniature gems are the purest, most innocent, in the most positive way, naive early Beethoven music. And you hear it so rarely… Makes me also think, well, who was he as a person, you know? Who was this man? This is unbelievable." Widmann is one of the most in-demand violinists of today – and considered one of the most intelligent musicians of her generation. Widmann was born in 1976 in Munich and studied violin with Igor Ozim in Cologne. She performs on a violin made by Giovanni Battista Guadagnini in 1782. The 2021 festival was the last one with Nike Wagner as its director. She's a great-granddaughter of Richard Wagner, and under her leadership, the festival commissioned a new piece every year. We've got an especially interesting example coming up next. It's a piece written by the well-known Austrian composer Georg Friedrich Haas, and it's called "Was mir Beethoven erzählt," or "What Beethoven tells me." The composition revolves around the central drama of Beethoven's life: his deafness. It's a very personal piece – and you can tell before you even hear a single note, just by looking at the title: "What Beethoven tells me." We'll hear Haas himself explain why it's so personal. He was sick at the time of this interview and couldn't travel, therefore it took place over the phone: "The point is that I also have tinnitus and that my tinnitus is far less severe than Beethoven's was. At some point it became clear to me that Beethoven's task in life – to write music despite his physical circumstances – also had a social and political aspect: that a person, no matter what situation they are in, has to create the art that is needed." We'll hear two soloists in his composition. One is Australian Lorelei Dowling on the contraforte, which is a modern version of the contrabassoon from 2004. The other soloist is once again violinist Carolin Widmann. Together, these two musicians span a range that reaches from the highest highs to the lowest lows. Haas' piece musically quotes one of Beethoven's most important compositions – his sixth symphony, generally known as the "Pastoral" symphony. It's also one of Beethoven's most personal compositions. Hardly any other work reveals so much about Beethoven the man – his love of nature, his sense of world harmony. He wrote his first sketches for the symphony in 1803, but the real compositional work took place in 1807 and 1808. It premiered on December 22, 1808, in Vienna, in a concert that came to be known as Beethoven's Academy. David Bowie, who died of cancer on January 10, 2016, would have turned 75 this year on January 8. Deutsche Post is commemorating the legendary singer who lived in Berlin in the late 70s with a special stamp, featuring a picture by photographer Greg Gorman. For its special editions, the German postal service takes suggestions from the public. Once a theme for a new German stamp is accepted, graphic designers can submit their ideas in a competition. Some celebrities simply take the design into their own hands, as was the case for German rocker Udo Lindenberg in 2018 for the collection "Udo's 10 Commandments." The proceeds went to the Boniface Association, a charity supporting social projects for women and children. Around 50 designs were submitted for the Bowie stamp. The contract was awarded to the graphic artist Thomas Steinacker, who happens to be a Deutsche Post stamp designer. He also created the anniversary stamp featuring Beethoven. The stamps are available in two different sizes, each limited to 5,000 copies. In 2001 Deutsche Post issued a stamp dedicated to Audrey Hepburn. But her family objected to the choice of photo showing the Hollywood icon smoking. The 14 million stamps that had already been printed had to be destroyed. A rare few survived — and became extremely valuable. A single stamp fetched €135,000 ($153,000) at an auction in 2005, and a pane of 10 stamps even reached €430,000 in 2010. On what would have been his 100th birthday in 2009, Deutsche Post honored German comedian Heinz Erhardt, who died in 1979 at the age of 70. The caption on the stamp refers to his book "Noch'n Gedicht" (Another Poem), a collection of humorous poems. Germany's Federal Ministry of Finance is responsible for the special stamps. An advisory board discusses proposals received there once a year. In 2006 the Austrian post issued a special stamp with singer Falco, who died in 1998 at the age of 40. He is dressed up as Mozart, a reference to his superhit "Rock Me Amadeus" from 1985, which to this day remains the only German-language single to have reached number one of the Billboard Hot 100 chart. Austria had already dedicated a stamp to its star in 1994. An art advisory board decides on the drafts of the stamps. For deceased celebrities, the winning design must be coordinated with their heirs and estate administrators — ideally ahead of printing, as the Hepburn case taught us. The stamp for Beethoven's 250th anniversary in 2020 features a stylized version of a famous portrait of the composer by Joseph Karl Stieler. Postage stamps also document the passing of time. This special stamp with the portrait of German singer and actress Hildegard Knef was issued in 2003, a year after her death. At the time, a standard letter could be sent within Germany for 55 cents. That now costs 85 cents. Ernie and Bert proudly presented the 2020 series of stamps dedicated to the stars of the German spin-off of the beloved US children's show, "Sesame Street." Along with Bert, Elmo, the Cookie Monster and Ernie, the German version of the show also has the puppets Samson and Tiffy as main characters. Special postage stamps with prominent personalities are popular around the world. Pop stars like Michael Jackson have been immortalized in several countries. This design from a US stamp was reproduced as a mural in Rio de Janeiro, where he had shot the video for his single "They Don't Care About Us" in 1995. Many international stamps celebrating stars are colorful and cheerful. This US postage stamp from 1993 honors rock 'n' roller Buddy Holly ("Peggy Sue"), who died in a plane crash in 1959 at the age of 22. Most pictures show Buddy Holly smiling, like the image on the stamp above. And of course there have been stamps paying tribute to the King of rock 'n' roll all around the world — there's even one from the Pacific island state of Palau. In 1992, the US Postal Service proposed two possible designs for an Elvis Presley stamp. The design depicting him much younger won. Special postage stamps often celebrate national success stories, like this 2009 series featuring Australian Academy Award winners Cate Blanchett, Russell Crowe, Nicole Kidman and Geoffrey Rush. Launched in 1997, Australia Post's annual Legends Awards stamps commemorate people from the country who have made significant contributions to the world. In 2021, the Royal Mail, the UK's national postal service, issued a special edition featuring numerous superheroes and villains from the DC Comics universe. They were designed by British comic book artist Jim Cheung, known for his work on the Avengers series — published by DC's competitor, Marvel Comics. In January 2022, the British Post is honoring The Rolling Stones with 12 special stamps. The band celebrates its 60th anniversary this year and is among "the most enduring rock groups of all time," the Royal Mail said. The Stones have created some of the most iconic and inspiring albums in modern music and are renowned for their groundbreaking live performances, it was noted. Author: Torsten Landsberg For Beethoven, the symphony wasn't about painting a picture through music, but about presenting a deeper experience of nature – what he termed "an expression of feeling," embodied in his symphony No. 6, the "Pastoral" symphony. It's the next piece of music in this recording, performed by the Basel Chamber Orchestra with Sylvain Cambreling conducting. The performance took place on September 9 at the Beethovenfest in Bonn. In our last bit of time today, we're going to once again hear violinist Carolin Widmann. We already heard her soloing in works by Beethoven, Schubert and Georg Friedrich Haas. But Widmann is not a musician who always has to be at the center of things. She's glad to be part of a team and play chamber music when it's of artistic interest. We'll hear her now as one of three string players in a quartet by Mozart that also includes flute. Nowadays, this tends to be a modern metal flute, but if the performers are going for a historically informed sound, you may see a wooden baroque flute, known as a traverso. But we'll hear something different still: a wooden recorder, performed by Danish recorder player Michala Petri. The sound brings a whole new perspective to Mozart's Flute Quartet in D major, in a recording from 2010. That's all in this edition of DW Festival Concert. Join us next time with our program host, Cristina Burack. Performances featured in this DW Festival Concert: 1. Ludwig van Beethoven, Romance for violin and orchestra No. 2 in F major, op. 50 Performed by: Carolin Widmann, violin Basel Chamber Orchestra Conducted by: Sylvain Cambreling Recorded by Deutsche Welle (DW) in the WCCB, Bonn, on September 9, 2021 2. Ludwig van Beethoven, Romance for violin and orchestra No. 1 in G major, op. 40 Performed by: Carolin Widmann, violin Basel Chamber Orchestra Conducted by: Sylvain Cambreling, conductor Recorded by Deutsche Welle (DW) in the WCCB, Bonn, on September 9, 2021 DW Festival Concert host Cristina Burack 3.Georg Friedrich Haas "Was mir Beethoven erzählt" ("What Beethoven Tells Me"), concertante symphonic poem for violin, contraforte and orchestra Lorelei Dowling, contraforte Carolin Widmann, violin Basel Chamber Orchestra Sylvain Cambreling, conductor Recorded by Deutsche Welle (DW) in the WCCB, Bonn, on September 9, 2021 4. Ludwig van Beethoven, Symphony No. 6 in F Major, "Pastoral," op. 68 Performed by: Basel Chamber Orchestra Conductor: Sylvain Cambreling Recorded by Deutsche Welle (DW) in the WCCB, Bonn, on September 9, 2021 5. Wolfgang Amadeus Mozart, Flute Quartet in D major, KV 285, for flute, violin, viola and cello Performed by: Michala Petri, recorder Carolin Widmann, violin Ula Ulijona, viola Marta Sudraba, cello Archive No: 4256996 Courtesy of West German Broadcasting (WDR) Produced at Deutsche Welle with sound engineer Thomas Schmidt, producer and Russian show host Anastassia Boutsko, and host Cristina Burack. Text and production by Gaby Reucher. Edited by: Manasi Gopalakrishnan