Experts have advised that, for optimum physical and psychological well-being, you should not spend Valentine's Day alone. In an ideal world, you would have fallen in love before February 14 and will still be in love well after the roses have drooped. But they have also issued a caveat to watch your heart. Rotimi Animashahun, a professor of creativity-innovative counselling at Nigeria's University of Ibadan, told DW that there are positive correlations between love and psychological well-being, though they shouldn't be restricted to Valentine's Day. "Love is a strong factor for existence and that is why people who are in love and are loved express fewer depressive symptoms compared to those who are not," Animashahun said. He compared the lives of people who manifest positive emotions with those who do not. The latter tend to die younger than those loaded with positive emotions because, he said, negative emotions are silent killers that drain lives, while positive emotions promote longevity. When we love or feel loved, our bodies secrete feel-good hormones like endorphins and oxytocin that nourish the brain and enhance our mental health. That's why experts recommend people to avoid toxic relationships. Valentine's Day originally commemorated Saint Valentine, a Catholic saint known for his generosity to the poor and helpless, who was murdered on February 14. The secular celebration — a show of love often characterized by parties — has overtaken the original purpose. According to Professor Animashahun, quasi-experimental studies on both single and married people who were in love and are loved showed that they were far less likely to suffer from psychological illnesses. Over the years, such people have been found to live healthier, happier and longer lives. Conventional farming is one of the main reasons for the dramatic decline in insects across the world. Pesticides harm bugs already struggling to find a habitat and food. So how about sponsoring a piece of wild meadow? That way wildflowers can bloom, welcoming bees, butterflies and other insects. Plus, a photo of the adopted meadow lasts longer than any floral bouquet. Sponsoring a tree is another option. Trees store CO2 and are important allies in the fight against global warming. When choosing a tree to adopt, it's important to make sure it's not part of an agroforestry scheme where it will be felled after just a few years. Projects that take the needs of local communities into account are even better. Some development organizations allow you to purchase livestock or bee colonies in the name of a person you want to surprise. Those animals are then gifted to people who need them to make a living. If your loved one is a fan of monkeys or elephants, they might also be happy to have a donation made to a wildlife reserve made in their name. ... is likely something you'll never forget. But the CO2 you emit will also hang around for a long time — in the atmosphere. So why not give your partner the gift of carbon offsetting on your next trip? Various organizations offer such schemes — and not just for flights. The money is invested in CO2-saving projects, such as solar kitchens for people who still cook with wood. "Babe, my gift to you is that a coal power station will run for seven minutes less" — that's definitely original, right? It's not just companies and governments who can buy carbon credits. Environment organizations sell them to individuals, too. The idea is to purchase the credits so they won't be available for businesses to trade, thereby encouraging a switch to sustainable production. Products that don't have to be produced from scratch save on resources like energy, water and fuel. Used items aren't just more climate-friendly than new ones, they're often also more original. You can find true gems with a real story in vintage stores, selling everything from clothing to household wares. And a growing number of online shops sell used electronics with warranties. Sometimes spending quality time with your loved ones can say more than a gift ever could. We'll often remember a picnic, day trip, romantic dinner at home, a trip to the theater or movies or a hike at night for much longer than the material things we're given. And it can be better for the environment to boot. If you live in the Northern Hemisphere and you want roses for Valentine's Day, then you only have the choice between imported ones and those grown locally in a greenhouse. Imported roses are often the better choice for the environment, as heating a greenhouse releases more CO2 than the plane journey. That's unless the greenhouse uses renewable energy. Happy Valentine's Day! Author: Jeannette Cwienk Thus, experts have warned people who are not in love, who don't feel loved or who are grappling with love to be careful because it can have an adverse effect on their mental health. "This is a dangerous place to be!" Dr. Oluseun Peter Ogunnubi, a senior lecturer at the University of Lagos and a consultant psychiatrist at Lagos' Grace Cottage Mental Health Clinic, told DW. The moment one loses that sense of loving or being loved, psychological issues like depression or anxiety set in, according to Dr. Ogunnubi. This is due to excessive secretion of dangerous chemicals in the brain, such as adrenaline, and a reduction in the secretion of feel-good hormones and neurogenic chemicals like serotonin and endorphins. Dr. Ogunnubi said that the highest rates of mental disorder are consistently found among those who either felt unloved or were unloved, while it wasn't so common among those in love-filled environments. Couples who genuinely love and express love have higher chances of living longer. He said human beings are born with an innate need to be loved and love others, which leads to fulfilment. That, in turn, affects the mental state of the individual, reinforces the immune system, and reduces stress. So, being unfulfilled in love could have a variety of adverse effects on one's health and well-being. Medical findings have revealed that even children benefit immensely from the love cycle. Dr. Efunbo Dosekun, medical director of Lagos' Outreach Women and Children's Hospital Group told DW that when children are surrounded by love, kindness, empathy and sensitivity, they will be kinder, more empathetic people when they reach adulthood. She said love and nurturing have major roles in protecting the emotional and mental health of children, as well as various developmental phases of their lives. Dr. Dosekun said the love cycle doesn't just happen suddenly, it should begin from birth because receiving love as a child creates the right foundation to be able to express it to others. "Love is not just buying clothes or gifts for them, love is trust; it is showing children you care, you are trustworthy, dependable and consistent. And all these actions can start happening right from the day the child is born," said Dr. Dosekun. Hugs are one of the loving actions children should receive regularly. Dr. Dosekun said that infants who are on the receiving end of regular loving actions by their parents, turn out to live better than those who are not, as love helps them live longer and fight diseases. Falling in love or being in love has been scientifically proven to increase one's heart rate. That, in turn, increases blood flow to all parts of the body, including the sexual organs. This has also been discovered to have positive effects on the mind and body. But scientists have also discovered that falling in love can sometimes be dangerous. Remember being madly in love, perhaps for the first time? You were "blinded by love," as the German idiom goes. In that state of mind, the object of your affection can do no wrong, and people tend not to notice faults, aggravating traits or problems on the horizon. The above German roadsign warns drivers to watch out for "lovestruck" frogs trying to cross on their way to spawn. The German idiom has it that "loves goes through the stomach." In English, it's "The way to a man's (or woman's) heart is through his stomach." Delicious and lovingly prepared meals and confident cooking skills can win affections and maybe even make that special person fall in love with the cook. After all, eating a great meal releases endorphins, the so-called happy hormones. First love, last love: The German idiom translates as, "Old love doesn't rust." It's a very old saying that stems from the Latin "vetus amor non sentit rubiginem" ("Old love does not know rust"). Feelings of love one had do not fade. Queen Elizabeth II and Prince Philipp, by the way, tied the knot in 1947. All you need is love? The German phrase "live on air and love" describes the young couple without much of an income for whom air to breathe and love seems to be enough. A similar English idiom is more of a warning: You can't live on love alone, because, "Love doesn't pay the bills." Beauty, money, power — why do people fall in love? Some couples look like a complete mismatch. The German idiom describing this situation is a bit ominous: where love falls ... A perfect example is the case of a swan named Petra on a lake in the city of Münster who fell in love with a huge swan-shaped plastic pedal boat. "Lucky at cards, unlucky in love": If you win at cards, you won't have a happy love life — and vice versa, this saying implies. It seems to be an either/or situation. Perhaps people who are madly in love can't concentrate on gambling, so they lose. Author: Dagmar Breitenbach Dr. Reginald Ho, a cardiac electrophysiologist, noted that people with serious heart problems should be careful because while falling in love, the brain sends signals to the adrenal gland, which secretes hormones such as adrenaline, epinephrine, and norepinephrine. They flow through the blood and cause the heart to beat faster and stronger. When the heart rate goes up, the heart uses more oxygen, which, according to Dr. Ho, can be risky for an older person with blood vessel blockages or anyone who has had a prior heart attack. Dr. Ogunnubi also says falling in love could be dangerous. "I always ask young people to guard their hearts with all jealousy; reason being that a significant number of young men and women who are in different mental health institutions across the country today are there because of heartbreak." Dr. Ogunnubi says Valentine's Day is often characterized with irrational promises and deception. And, because of the frenzy surrounding February 14, his advice is that people should "shine their eyes" — be clear and aware about what they're getting into. Edited by: Keith Walker  