The mayor of Canadian capital Ottawa declared a state of emergency on Sunday amid trucker protests against COVID-19 restrictions. Thousands of protesters descended in Ottawa on the weekend, joining a hundred who remained from last weekend. The demonstrations began as truckers protested against vaccine requirements when crossing the border between the US and Canada, and later turned into a broader protest against COVID-19 restrictions and Prime Minister Justin Trudeau's government. Last week, crowdfunding site GoFundMe pulled funds for the protests. The protest in Ottawa began when a convoy of truckers reached the city on January 29 after a dayslong journey. They were angry at being required to be vaccinated against COVID-19 to cross the US-Canadian border. Since the convoy arrived, however, the protests have become broader in their scope. Demonstrators have railed not only against general COVID-19 restrictions, but called for the overthrow of the government of Prime Minister Justin Trudeau — even though it is not responsible for most regulations, which are rather imposed by provincial governments. The truckers from the so-called Freedom Convoy have parked their big rigs in the streets of Ottawa, disrupting traffic. Protesters have also set up tents and temporary shacks, paralyzing the city. Mayor Jim Watson has described the situation as "completely out of control" and warned of danger to the safety of residents. Supporters of the convoy have held demonstrations at key sites in the city. Residents have complained of often crude behavior or of being insulted or blocked by protesters. The mayor says the state of emergency he has announced "reflects the serious danger and threat to the safety and security of residents." The protesters in the capital received support from thousands from outside the city on the weekend. Financial aid was also forthcoming through the crowdfunding site GoFundMe, which has, however, since taken down the protests' donation platform, angering some prominent US Republicans who have been backing the convoy. ... former US President Donald Trump is among those supporting the protesters' cause. He called Trudeau a "far-left" lunatic who has "destroyed Canada with insane COVID mandates." Former US Ambassador Bruce Heyman responded by tweeting: "Trump and his followers are a threat not just to the US but to all democracies." The truckers' demonstration has provoked counterprotests, with participants showing support not only for vaccination but also hospital staff. In fact, polls show that much of the Canadian public supports the measures taken to stem COVID-19. And more than 77% of people in Canada have been vaccinated. Ottawa police will soon be reinforced by the Royal Canadian Mounted Police, a federal force, with Mayor Watson telling CFRA radio: "We have to get our city back." Police say that those who bring protesters any material aid now face potential arrest. But the protesters say they won't leave until all mandates and COVID-19 restrictions are lifted. Author: Timothy Jones Mayor Jim Watson said that the declaration highlights the need for support from other jurisdictions and levels of government. The declaration gives the city additional powers around procurement and how it delivers services, and may also help the city purchase equipment required by frontline workers and first responders. Earlier in the day, Watson had described the situation as "completely out of control." "Clearly, we are outnumbered and we are losing this battle," Watson told local radio station CFRA. Watson also called the truckers "insensitive," criticizing the noise produced by the protests. According to Watson, protesters have continued "blaring horns and sirens and fireworks, and turning it into a party." Meanwhile, police announced new measures to stop people from helping the protesters. "Anyone attempting to bring material support (gas, etc.) to the demonstrators could be subject to arrest," Ottawa's police force tweeted. Police also said that they had issued more than 450 tickets since Saturday. Similar demonstrations hit Toronto, Quebec City and Winnipeg on Saturday. Police in Quebec City said some 30 big trucks were blocking a major artery and had been warned they would face fines if not moving soon. The "Freedom Convoy" protests saw hundreds of truckers drive their vehicles into downtown Ottawa City council member Diane Deans said that the protests are "bigger than just a city of Ottawa problem, this is a nationwide insurrection." On Saturday, Ottawa police chief Peter Sloly called the demonstrations a "siege" and asked for reinforcements. The federal Canadian Mounted police are due to send reinforcements of 250 officers to Ottawa. The trucker protests have drawn support from members of the US Republican Party, including former President Donald Trump. Trump called Canada's Prime Minister Justin Trudeau a "far left lunatic" who has "destroyed Canada with insane COVID mandates." On Sunday, a former US ambassador to Canada denounced such statements, saying that the US should stop interfering in the domestic affairs of its neighbor. "Canada US relations used to be mainly about solving technical issues," Hayman tweeted. "Today Canada is unfortunately experiencing radical US politicians involving themselves in Canadian domestic issues," he added. "Trump and his followers are a threat not just to the US but to all democracies." sdi/aw (AP, AFP, Reuters)