US President Joe Biden was afforded a rather low-key reception at King Abdulaziz International Airport in Jeddah as he arrived in Saudi Arabia on Friday. He was then welcomed to the Saudi royal palace by Crown Prince Mohammed bin Salman with a fist bump. The moment was broadcast on Saudi television. Biden was later shown on Saudi media shaking hands with King Salman bin Abdulaziz, with whom Biden will hold bilateral meetings before he and his team engage in a working session with MBS and his advisors. Biden arrived in Saudi Arabia after two days in Israel, and is seeking to "recalibrate” relations with Riyadh, one of the oldest US allies in the region. But tensions between Biden and de facto Saudi leader Mohammed bin Salman (MBS) have been high after Biden previously vowed to make Saudi Arabia a "pariah" state over its human rights record, saying the country had "no redeeming social value." Biden recently faced criticism at home for scheduling a visit to Saudi Arabia. The US president has declined to say whether he would shake hands with the crown prince or broach the subject of the killing of Jamal Khashoggi — a dissident Saudi journalist who lived in the US and worked for the Washington Post before he was murdered at the Saudi Embassy in Istanbul in 2018. Biden, who touts himself as a champion of human rights, last year ordered the release of US intelligence reports suggesting MBS had signed off on the murder, damaging relations between the two allies. Khashoggi's fiancee Hatice Cengiz called Biden's decision to meet with MBS, "heartbreaking and disappointing," adding, "Biden will lose his moral authority by putting oil and expediency over principles and values." But Biden urged looking at the bigger picture before starting his visit. "My views on Khashoggi have been absolutely, positively clear. And I have never been quiet about talking about human rights. The reason I'm going to Saudi Arabia, though, is much broader," said Biden. Biden will attempt to reengage with Riyadh and other leaders from the Gulf Cooperation Council (GCC) that includes Bahrain, Kuwait, Oman, Saudi Arabia and the United Arab Emirates (UAE). He will convene with GCC leaders as well as the leaders of Egypt, Iraq and Jordan on Saturday. With mid-term elections approaching this fall in the US and Biden's Democrats looking to lose seats, Biden will prod MBS to increase oil production and offset rising prices in the US amid the Russian invasion of Ukraine. Yet, observers say his concerns will matter little to Saudi leadership. Former US State Department official Aaron David Miller, now a senior fellow at the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace, said Biden's difficult sojourn will differ greatly from that of his predecessor Donald Trump, who got on swimmingly with the authoritarian MBS, saying, "there aren't going to be a lot of sword dances, smiling photo ops, or warm embraces." js/dj (AFP, AP)