This article was last updated at 13:41 GMT/UTC Addressing a conference at The Hague organized by the International Criminal Court (ICC), the European Commission and the Netherlands, Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy called for a "special tribunal" to investigate Russia's invasion of Ukraine. "Existing judicial institutions cannot bring all the guilty parties to justice. Therefore, a special tribunal is needed to address the crime of Russian aggression against Ukraine," Zelenskyy said. The ICC opened an investigation into war crimes committed by Russia in Ukraine in March, shortly after the invasion began on February 24. Didier Reynders, the European Commissioner for Justice, said there are 20,000 open investigations into war crimes allegedly committed by Russian forces in Ukraine. Ukraine's top prosecutor said Ukraine had already identified 127 of those suspected of committing war crimes. Authorities in the western Ukrainian city of Vinnytsia raised the number of those killed in a Russian missile strike in the city to 20. Earlier 12 people, including a baby, had reportedly been killed. On Facebook, police chief Ihor Klymenko announced 90 more were injured in the strike that saw three rockets hit an office center. The southern port city of Mykolayiv was also hit by missiles overnight, striking a school and a hotel, with only one injury reported. Russian-installed officials in the occupied Zaporizhzhia region of Ukraine are aiming to hold a referendum on joining Russia in September. Vladimir Rogov from the Zaporizhzhia civil-military administration told Russian news outlet RIA Novosti: "We will finally announce when it will be once we understand the level of readiness and involvement of the people." Although Russia has seized the majority of the Zaporizhzhia region, Ukraine still holds a significant chunk — namely, the city of Zaporizhzhia itself, home to half the region's population before the invasion. The coastal region neighbors the Donbas, home to two self-declared, breakaway republics recognized only by Russia, Syria and North Korea. Russian Deputy Foreign Minister Andrew Rudenko outlined several conditions that Moscow "would respond positively to" in order to negotiate peace with Ukraine, Russia's Interfax news agency reported. One of the main conditions he hinted at was that Kyiv should become a non-aligned and non-nuclear nation. Rudenko also said Ukrainian officials would have to accept certain "territorial realities" such as Russia’s occupation of Crimea and the self-declared breakaway republics in the Donbas. Ukrainian officials, including President Zelenskyy, have repeatedly insisted that Ukraine will not cede any territory to Russia. US Treasury Secretary on Thursday said the Russian invasion of Ukraine posed the main threat to the global economy and was sending inflation soaring across the world. She was speaking on the sidelines of the gathering of finance ministers and central bank chiefs of the Group of 20 (G20) major economies in Bali, Indonesia. Yellen said, at the G20, it "cannot be business as usual" with Russia following its military aggression. "I think I've made clear that it cannot be business as usual with respect to Russia's participation at these meetings," she said. Officials from both Russia and Ukraine said that talks over the export of Ukrainian grain via the Black Sea had made progress and that a deal could be reached as soon as next week. "There has indeed been a substantive discussion on this issue," said Maria Zakharova, a Russian Foreign Ministry spokesperson. "It was possible to formulate some elements of a possible agreement which Russia, Ukraine and Turkey are now discussing in their capitals through their military departments," she added. Ukrainian Infrastructure Minister Oleksandr Kubrakov also said progress was made at Wednesday's talks. "We are definitely a step closer to a result," the minister told Reuters news agency. A preliminary date for the next four-way meeting is July 20 or 21, the Russian RIA news agency reported. Russian missiles have killed 12 people in the city of Vinnytsia in what Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy called "an open act of terrorism." Zelenskyy said a child was among the dead. while dozens more were wounded in the attack far from the frontlines of fighting. Ukraine's national police said three missiles struck an office building and damaged nearby residential buildings in the city located some 240 kilometers (149 miles) southwest of Kyiv. The strikes sparked a fire that ultimately engulfed around 50 vehicles in an adjacent parking lot. "Every day Russia is destroying the civilian population, killing Ukrainian children, directing missiles at civilian objects. Where there is no military (targets)," Zelenskyy wrote on Telegram. The European Commission has said it expects the war in Ukraine to push inflation in the euro zone to a record high of 7.6% in 2022. the EU's executive arm also cuts its euro zone growth forecasts for 2022 from 2.7% to 2.6% and for 2023 from 2.3% to 1.4%. Lithuania will maintain trade restrictions on the Russian exclave of Kaliningrad until it can establish new rules to let sanctioned Russian goods transit through its territory, Prime Minister Ingrida Simonyte said on Thursday. The Russian territory, wedged between Lithuania and Poland, had been cut off from Moscow after Lithuania began enforcing European Union sanctions on rail freight. However, the EU executive said on Wednesday that Russian goods should be allowed to transit through EU territory to reach Kaliningrad amid rising tensions between Moscow and Vilnius. Swiss persecutors are currently conducting a criminal investigation into commodities firms allegedly trading in stolen raw materials from Ukraine. "Commercializing looted raw materials could constitute a war crime," Swiss Attorney-General Stefan Blättler wrote in a column for the national newspaper Le Temps. Although he said investigations were underway, he did not provide specific details. The issue has come to light after allegations that invading Russian forces pillaged grain and coal reserves. The Kremlin has denied such claims. Ukrainian forces have continued to strike Russian positions around the port city of Kherson, according to official reports. Ukraine launched an attack on two military checkpoints in the Russian-held town of Nova Kakhovka on Thursday. Serhiy Bratchuk, a spokesperson for the Odesa regional administration, said the airstrike killed 13 "occupiers." The account has not yet been independently verified. It follows a Tuesday attack on Nova Kakhovka in which Ukrainian forces claim to have killed 52 people, and the Russian-installed authorities area reported at least seven fatalities. A British intelligence assessment claimed Russian forces "have achieved no significant territorial advances" in the Donbas over the past 72 hours and run the risk of losing momentum. This is a change from when Russia captured the frontline city of Lysychanska week ago. "The ageing vehicles, weapons, and Soviet-era tactics used by Russian forces do not lend themselves to quickly regaining or building momentum unless used in overwhelming mass — which Russia is currently unable to bring to bear," the UK Defense Ministry said in its daily briefing. Additionally, the ministry said that despite four-way talks in Istanbul on grain exports and successful prisoner exchanges, the prospect of a peace negotiation remains slim. Germany's energy regulator has estimated that monthly heating bills could triple next year due to a decrease in Russian gas imports. "For those now receiving their heating bill, the payments are already doubling — and that is before taking into account the Ukraine war," Federal Network Agency chief Klaus Müller told Germany's RND news outlet. Müller said higher procurement costs could be met with subsidies for gas companies or by passing the cost on to consumers while offering state assistance to those unable to pay the increased prices. Germany is heavily reliant on imported Russian gas, supplies of which have dropped since Russia invaded Ukraine. Müller said that private households would be protected during an energy crisis under German and European law. "Even in the worst-case scenario, Germany will continue to get gas from Norway and from terminals in Belgium and Holland, and soon directly from terminals on the German coast," he stressed. Lithuania's Foreign Ministry has confirmed that it will allow sanctioned Russian goods to transit through its territory to the Russian exclave Kaliningrad, following the release of new guidelines by the European Commission. Kaliningrad, which is bordered by Poland and Lithuania, has had some freight transport from mainland Russia cut off since June 17 due to sanctions. Moscow said that this amounted to an illegal blockade. Under the new guidelines released by the European Commission on Wednesday, Lithuania will only be allowed to block rail shipments of certain goods that have dual civilian and military use. "This decision, which removes restrictions on a certain range of products transported by rail, is a demonstration of realism and common sense," Reuters cited a Russian Foreign Ministry spokesperson as saying. "Although we still have questions about the contents of this document." Kaliningrad regional Governor Anton Alikhanov said in a Telegram post that the new guidelines are "only the first step needed." "We will continue to work towards the complete removal of restrictions," Alikhanov said. Kyiv is pushing for Washington to supply it with longer-range missiles, Ukrainian lawmaker Fedir Venyslavsky said. Currently, the Ukrainian army has missiles with a range of 70 kilometers (43 miles) for the HIMARS rocket launchers recently supplied by Washington. Missiles for the HIMARS launchers can have ranges of up to 500 kilometers. The Tochka-U missiles currently used by Ukraine for longer-range strikes have a range of up to 120 kilometers but are less precise than those used for HIMARS rocket launchers. The Crimean Bridge, which connects Russia to annexed Crimea, is some 260 kilometers from the frontline. The bridge could fall into the range of a Ukrainian strike if Kyiv were supplied with longer-range missiles. Kremlin spokesperson Dmitry Peskov described Ukraine's rumored plans to target the Crimean Bridge as "terror." He added that the bridge was sufficiently protected against potential strikes. The US has long declined to provide Kyiv with longer-range missiles due to fears that Ukraine could use them to launch strikes on Russian territory and further escalate the conflict. Head of the office of Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy, Andriy Yermak, said Kyiv had proposed the formation of a "basic navigation algorithm" that would allow grain exports through the Black Sea. Yermak made the comments following a meeting between Ukrainian, Russian and Turkish military delegations and UN officials in Istanbul. "Black Sea security is a priority in the issue of resuming of Ukrainian agricultural export. That is why Ukraine has proposed to form a basic navigation algorithm for the Black Sea." According to Yermak, the proposal will "ensure" the continuation of Ukraine's grain exports and "guarantee food security for millions of people." "Based on the results of today's meeting, the parties agreed to form a Joint Coordination Center under the UN auspices," Yermak said, adding that the center will be located in Istanbul. The task of the UN-managed body will be to "carry out general monitoring and coordination of safe navigation in the Black Sea." The United States called on Russia to immediately release Ukrainians it has forced out of their home country and allow outside observers. Talks between Russia, Ukraine, Turkey, and UN officials on resuming Black Sea exports of Ukraine grain resulted in an agreement to form a coordination center to ensure the safety of routes, the Turkish defense minister said. The European Union will continue not to recognize new Russian passports issued to Ukrainians, the bloc's top diplomat Josep Borrell said. Russian energy giant Gazprom said it could not guarantee the good functioning of the Nord Stream pipeline. A Moscow court ordered opposition politician Ilya Yashin remain in jail for two months pending an investigation into the spreading of "fake information" about Russia's army. Ukrainian Foreign Minister Dmytro Kuleba said the military is "planning and preparing for full liberation" of Russian-occupied cities near the country's Black Sea coast. Click here for more details on Wednesday's events in Russia's war against Ukraine. ar, jsi, sdi/fb, sms, kb (AP, AFP, dpa, Reuters)