After a one-week break, Formula 1 returns to the track this weekend with the French Grand Prix at the Circuit Paul Ricard near Marseille. Yet again, 20 cars will race in circles at speeds of almost 300 kilometers per hour (186 miles per hour), the traveling F1 caravan pumping countless tons of carbon dioxide into the atmosphere. In 2019, the last season before the COVID-19 pandemic hit, F1 accounted for a total of 256,551 tons of the environmentally harmful gas being released into the atmosphere. However, just 0.7% of this was due to emissions from the cars themselves. That's "only" 1,795.8 metric tons of carbon dioxide per season. The lion's share is made up by logistics (45%) and staff travel (27.7%), according to a sustainability strategy study published by Formula 1 in 2019. By comparison, the footprint of a men's football World Cup is much larger – the 2018 World Cup in Russia generated about 2.1 million tons of carbon dioxide. That Formula 1 isn't the most environmentally friendly of sports comes as no surprise. But perhaps the fact that one of its most prominent drivers has become an environmental activist is. At the last race, the Austrian Grand Prix, Sebastian Vettel sported a helmet with a special yellow, orange and black design and the slogan: "Save the bees." The 35-year-old is involved in a project that works to protect the species. A few weeks earlier, he drew attention to the way oil is extracted from the Athabasca tar sands in western Canada. Sebastian Vettel is involved in a project to protect bees  "I think what happens in Alberta is a crime because you chop down a lot of trees and you basically destroy the place just to extract oil and the manner of doing it with the tar sands, mining oil sands, is horrible for nature," Vettel said ahead of the Canadian Grand Prix in Montreal. However, he did not wear a specially designed helmet to protest this issue during the race. He is said to have been advised against doing so by F1's governing body FIA and his Aston Martin team. In Miami, he wore a T-shirt warning of Florida's demise in the face of the melting north and south poles and impending flooding. In Baku, he used his clothing in the paddock to promote peace in Ukraine. And during the free practice, he wore a T-shirt that read "Every day is a Friday for the Future." Vettel has never been afraid to speak his mind, but now he almost seems more focused on the causes he supports than being a Formula 1 driver. "I'm not exactly the most popular driver in the eyes of the Formula 1 organization," the four-time drivers' champion conceded. "However, no one can tell me what and what not to say. Even if what I say then is not looked upon favorably." Vettel is aware of the platform that being an F1 driver gives him – and he knows how to use it. He also didn't mince his words when it came to the racist incidents reported to have occurred at the recent Austrian Grand Prix. Sebastian Vettel won all four of his F1 drivers' titles with Red Bull Racing  "Whoever these people are, they should be ashamed of themselves and banned from racing events for life," Vettel said. "I think there should be zero tolerance." In terms of his performances on the track, Vettel hasn't been making the headlines since leaving Red Bull, where he won his four drivers' titles, and at 35, it's far from certain that his contract will be renewed after it expires at the end of the season. The fact that the Saudi Public Investment Fund (PIF) has become Aston Martin's second-biggest investor could also be a factor. The British racing team is aiming to use the millions of pounds in fresh funds to pay off its debts. At last year's race in Saudi Arabia, Vettel criticized the human rights situation in the Kingdom. He also organized the Race4Women in Jeddah, in which only women and girls were allowed to compete. However, despite his high-minded words of protest, Vettel remains part of a racing series that has stated its intention to become climate neutral by 2030, but still generates thousands of tons of carbon dioxide. This point wasn't lost on Alberta's environment minister, Sonya Savage. "I have seen a lot of hypocrisy over the years, but this one takes the cake," Savage tweeted in response to Vettel's criticism. "A race car driver sponsored by Aston Martin, with financing from Saudi Aramco, complaining about the oil sands." Vettel is well aware of the contradiction between his environmental stance and his profession. "Then I'm just a hypocrite if I'm doing a job I love but at the same time I'm highlighting environmental concerns," he said. "I'm not a saint. It's not my job to tell people what to do. But I do as much as I can as far what I can control." This article was translated from German by Chuck Penfold and edited by Matt Ford. Four-time world champion Sebastian Vettel will remain in F1 beyond this season after signing with Racing Point, who will rebrand as Aston Martin F1 Team from 2021. "I am pleased to finally share this exciting news about my future," said the German, who will see out the last of his six seasons with Ferrari in 2020. "It’s a new adventure for me with a truly legendary car company." The German driver's F1 career began with BMW Sauber. After spending most of the 2006 season in Formula Three, he became a test driver for Sauber in 2007. At the United States Grand Prix, the 19-year-old became the youngest driver in F1 history to score a point after replacing the injured Robert Kubica — Daniil Kvyat broke his record in 2014. Midway through the 2007 season, Vettel got his first permanent spot in F1 with Scuderia Toro Rosso, a feeder team for Red Bull Racing. The German gave the Italian outfit its first-ever race win at the 2008 Italian Grand Prix. The victory also made the 19-year-old the youngest-ever F1 race winner — a record Red Bull's Max Verstappen broke in 2016 when he won the Spanish Grand Prix aged 18. Vettel achieved even greater heights when he moved up the grid to Red Bull Racing in 2009. After becoming the youngest world champion in 2010, he went on to win three more with Red Bull in 2011, 2012 and 2013. He clinched his fourth title after winning six consecutive races, the final one at the Indian Grand Prix on the outskirts of New Delhi. Vettel's four consecutive championships put him in the same bracket as another German great, Michael Schumacher (right). Vettel's rise inevitably drew comparisons with the F1 legend, who won seven world titles including five straight from 2000 to 2004 with Ferrari. "When I was a kid, Michael Schumacher in the red car was my greatest idol," Vettel said in 2014. Vettel followed up his four-straight titles with an underwhelming 2014 season. He became the first defending champion in 1998 to not win a race as he struggled with the RB10 car. Rumors of a pre-arranged agreement with Ferrari began to swirl, and Red Bull team principal Christian Horner announced in October 2014 that he would join Italian outfit — a move Ferrari didn't confirm until a month later. Vettel officially joined Ferrari in November 2014, taking the spot of Fernando Alonso, a two-time F1 champion. He said being part of the Italian outfit meant "a dream of a lifetime has come true." Paired with 2007 champion Kimi Raikkonen, Vettel helped Ferrari rebound from a disappointing fourth-placed finish in 2014 with a runner-up performance in the 2015 constructors' championship. Though he has continued to win races, Vettel has been stuck behind Mercedes during his Ferrari career. The Silver Arrows have strung together a streak of five straight constructors' championships, with Nico Rosberg (left) and Lewis Hamilton (center) winning drivers' titles during that span. Vettel's best chance to add a fifth world title came in 2018, but he flamed out after a fast start. In an unusual move, Ferrari added up-and-coming 21-year-old Charles Leclerc in 2019, committing to the Monegasque driver until 2024. But the Italian outfit insisted Vettel was still their lead driver. The roles appeared to switch throughout the 2019 season, with Leclerc finishing ahead of Vettel in the drivers' standings. Sebastian Vettel and Ferrari announced before the start of the season that they would go separate ways once the 32-year-old's contract expires at the end of 2020. This season, delayed for months due to the coronavirus pandemic, will be Vettel's sixth with the Italian outfit, ending a turbulent time that looks set to fail to produce a driver's championship. Author: Davis VanOpdorp