"We’re athletes who want to test ourselves against the best," said Germany coach Martina Voss-Tecklenburg on the eve of this tournament. "In women’s football, the best are here in Europe." Except for hosts England, who rocked the Richter scale with their seismic 8-0 success against Norway on Monday, and France, who barely broke sweat as they put Italy to the sword in their opening clash on Sunday, the best teams at this tournament so far had been Germany and Spain. Germany’s wish to test themselves against the best has been granted early on at Euro 2022, and they have certainly passed so far. Their 4-0 win over Denmark in their first game on Friday was a breeze. It took them just three minutes to go in front on Tuesday. They afforded Spain a good deal of early possession but thereby gave themselves the chance to press in high areas and chase down defenders. Spain goalkeeper Sandra Paños was the first to panic and crack, her miscued clearance tucked home by a cool-headed Klara Bühl. For Spain, who had given away a goal in the very first minute of their opening 4-1 win against Finland, it was a second nightmare start in a row. But unlike in their opener, the first half brought no relief. The second setback came nine minutes short of halftime when Germany captain Alexandra Popp converted Felicitas Rauch’s corner with a determined, clinical header. "We were prepared to not have the ball so much," Popp told ARD TV while wearing a Lea Schüller shirt, in tribute to her COVID-hit teammate. "We didn't really allow anything at the back and were very efficient up front. The win was also for you, Lea!" Alexandra Popp heads in Germany's second goal Spain coach Jorge Vilda’s team-talk at the interval certainly added an edge that his side had missed in the first 45 minutes. Suddenly Germany were the ones being pegged back, captives inside their own half, scarcely seeing a glimpse of the ball. Few teams at these Euros will be able to trap them and tease them like Spain did, but Germany withstood the siege. Even when all else failed, keeper Merle Frohms was a reliable last line of defense; one particular stop in the 70th minute will go down as an early contender for save of the tournament. Spain might be without injured Ballon d'Or winner Alexia Putellas but they were still among the favorites coming into the Euros, when Germany probably were not. That may all have changed at the Brentford Community Stadium. Their win over Denmark was a redemptive reassertion of their right to be counted among Europe’s elite. With this next victory, a display of grit, temperament and tactical nous against one of the continent’s most formidable opponents, Germany have made yet another statement of intent and provided further proof of progress since their last-eight exit at the 2019 World Cup. After these two dominant victories, many will conclude that they'd underestimated the Germans – and readjust their assumptions about how far this team can go. "We knew how we had to play coming into the game, but that’s not the same as actually doing it," Voss-Tecklenburg said after the Spain win. "It was exactly the fight and spirit that German teams are renowned for, but it was also great tactical management. "It shows how the team has grown. This was an important game from a learning perspective. Maybe one day we'll manage to have a bit more possession against Spain, but we’re a long way off that yet." As the tournament goes on, the stakes are raised and the pressure increases. Germany may have a difficult job matching the high standards they've set right at the start. But more chances to prove themselves against the best await - if they can bear the weight of the pressure that their early success inevitably entails. Edited by Mark Meadows