Benjamin Yeboah, an Accra-based trader, is struggling to stay in business due to the high cost of importing and clearing his goods from Ghanaian ports. He is a retailer who sells all kinds of merchandized products and is feeling the pinch of the current economic crisis facing the West African nation. "We have had some problems with the cost of ... clearance at the ports ... then after COVID it has even gone worst," Yeboah told DW. Yeboah has to contend with the high "cost of clearing them together with other port charges, levies and duties" on the products. He pointed out that the cost of freight has increased due to the depreciating value of the Ghanaian currency, the cedi. And he's not just dealing with high import taxes — but also the recent hike in fuel prices. "Immediately fuel prices go up, it affects lots of things and that also affected us," Yeboah said, justifying the increasing prices of his own products. I love to travel to Comoros, a volcanic archipelago in the Indian Ocean between Mozambique and Madagascar. It's the clearest seawater I've seen in Africa. I also love the island state for its breathtaking landscapes, which have been hardly touched by tourism. The climate here is tropical year-round, making it perfect for a vacation away from the crowds. Those who love luxurious tourism offerings should visit Mauritius. The island country in the Indian Ocean has many upscale hotels with private beaches and spacious facilities. It's not only an exciting mix of Africa and Asia in the cultural sense, but the scenery is very diverse too, with rainforests, mountains, stunning beaches and impressive waterfalls. Although it's now very popular with tourists, the Tanzanian island of Zanzibar is still one of my favorite destinations. Apart from the beautiful beaches, you have to visit Stone Town, the oldest part of Zanzibar City. Here you can get a feel for the island's culture while walking through walk through its narrow alleys — every evening there is delicious street food at the Forodhani Food Market. The last islands on my list, this time in the West African Gulf of Guinea, are Sao Tome and Principe, home to just over 200,000 people. Surprisingly, the islands are largely undiscovered by tourists — it's also not easy to get there, as few flights are offered. It's not difficult to find flights from abroad to the popular tourist destination of Cape Town. The port city on the southwest coast of South Africa is located on a peninsula dominated by the impressive Table Mountain. Although it's not exactly a hidden gem, I live here and love it: Where else can you surf in the morning, go climbing in the afternoon and visit a vineyard in the evening? "The smiling coast of Africa" lives up to its name. In The Gambia, it's easy to meet friendly people and relax on great beaches — there is also good tourism infrastructure. The nickname "smiling coast" also has a geographical meaning: When you look at Africa's smallest non-island country from above, its shape reminds you of a smile. The people of Sudan are incredibly kind. A Sudanese friend of mine jokingly calls it "aggressive friendliness," as one is constantly invited for tea. Few tourists travel here, however, as many governments do not recommend it due to armed conflicts in parts of the country. If you do come to Sudan, don’t miss the Meroe Nubian pyramids, which are smaller than those in Egypt but no less impressive. The vast and sparsely populated country in southwest Africa is home to the impressive Namib Desert with its high sand dunes. A trip through the country is great, but be prepared for the long drives. Namibia is also popular with safari tourists, as it is home to a variety of animal species. If you are looking for adventure rather than peace and quiet, you should visit the city of Lagos in Nigeria, home to around 20 million people. It is loud, hectic and stressful, but the cultural scene is vibrant, with lots of galleries, fashion and music. I recommend the New Afrika Shrine music venue, where Fela Kuti's son Femi often plays with his band. Maputo, the capital of Mozambique in southeast Africa, has a very special charm. Mozambican culture, Eastern Bloc architecture and well-preserved buildings from the Portuguese colonial period can all be found in this fascinating place. Those who find it too stressful can head to one of the beautiful beaches nearby. Author: Adrian Kriesch Ghana's inflation rate was around 30% in June — resulting in the highest cost of living in two decades. Prices of food and other goods are rising daily, worsening living conditions for ordinary consumers. Teacher unions went on strike to demand a 20% payment for a so-called cost of living allowance. They only called off the action when the government agreed to pay them 15%. Yeboah said Ghana's current economic challenges "haven't been easy and it is still not easy now." He is not the only one feeling the pinch of the country's skyrocketing prices. Prince Essien, who works in Accra's private sector, told DW that the "cost of living in Ghana is very expensive these days." Essien who used to spend $3 a day on food now has to spend more than double that amount due to the high inflation. And that's not to mention Essie's other expenses. He explained that "paying bills and paying rent and other utilities, it is very difficult … I have families and other things that one way or the other that I need to support them." Essien's salary hasn't increased for more than two years. He said he "needs at least $125 to cover his monthly expenses" — an amount of money that's he struggles to raise. Ghana's government has conceded that the country's economy is in dire straits, yet refuses to accept responsibility for mismanaging the country's finances. Rather, it rather points the finger of blame on the COVID pandemic and Russia's invasion of Ukraine. Even before the pandemic hit and Russia invaded Ukraine, there were concerns about the country's public debt — which now stands at $45.5 billion with a corresponding debt-to-GDP ratio of more than 77%, according to 2021 central bank figures. Some analysts say that the debt-to-GDP ratio has already jumped past the 81% mark and, with the government unable to find a solution, going to the International Monetary Fund (IMF) for a bailout appeared imminent. This month, the government announced that it was engaging the IMF to seek extra funding to cushion the economy. It was a sudden U-turn by the government whose key policy advisors and cabinet ministers vowed that Ghana wouldn't go back to the IMF for a program. The homes near Kenya's Lake Naivasha are as colorful as the millions of flowers grown there each year. Known as the "flower bed of Africa," the area north of the country's capital, Nairobi, exports cut roses, carnations and other blooms around the world. The industry is central to the country's economy. But it has a dark side too. Kenya is the world's fourth largest exporter of cut flowers. Fertile soil, plentiful sunshine and abundant water make Lake Naivasha the perfect spot for cultivating blossoms. Over 50 companies have set up on its shores. Chemicals and pesticides have polluted the water but the cut flower businesses say they're not to blame. Still, in 2009, the lake nearly dried out and the fish population plummeted, thanks to flower farms on the shore, which were constantly diverting lake water to their greenhouses, according to locals. It took over a year for fish stocks to begin regenerating. Although stringent regulations were introduced for companies after 2009, local fishing communities remain suspicious of the flower businesses that have sprouted on the lake's shores. They believe that chemicals are still seeping into the water. The companies deny this, but most won't allow DW access to their greenhouses. DW was allowed to visit the Oserian Flower Farm. Germany's international development agency, GIZ, advises the business on how it can make its operations greener. Oserian says it doesn't drain waste water into the lake, but reuses it in its greenhouses. It also has a "Fairtrade" label. The flower farm, which employs around 6,000 people, also says it uses half the industry standard amount of insecticides. They use beetles instead, like in this picture, showing an Oserian employee deploying the critters to eat any pests they may find on the roses. Speaking of roses, Kenyan grown ones are especially popular in the European Union where a third are bought. Most of the flowers are purchased in Germany and the United Kingdom. Although, outside of the EU, Kenyan flowers are also a favorite in the US and Russia. If Ghana secures an IMF bailout program, it would be its second in eight years. It would also be the 18th time the fund comes to Ghana's rescue. Its previous three-year deal was extended by another year, ending in 2019, which saw $918 million in support. Ghana reportedly hopes to secure a deal worth $2 billion this time round. Ghanaian President Nana Akufo-Addo — who has in the past touted the mantra of "Ghana-Beyond-Aid" — told party supporters over the weekend that his government is "going to negotiate a good deal with the IMF. A deal that would allow us to revive our economy and to continue the task of building an even stronger economy than we had before." The government is coming under a lot of criticism for what critics say is the poor management of the economy, which began even before the coronavirus pandemic and the war in Ukraine. Morgan Freeman (far right) launched his career in acting with the 1970s educational series "The Electric Company." The humorous show also featured Bill Cosby (second from left) and was directed at an audience of school children learning key language skills. It is said, however, that Freeman does not look back kindly on those early years of light entertainment and sketch comedy. Morgan Freeman had his silver screen debut playing opposite Robert Redford in "Brubaker." The movie was loosely based on a prison scandal from 1967, detailing forced labor, corruption, rape and extrajudicial killings at Arkansas penitentiaries at the time. Freeman's performance as a deranged inmate showcased his refined acting skills at this early point in his career. One of the roles that Freeman is best remembered for is "Driving Miss Daisy," which went on to score numerous awards. Freeman himself was nominated for an Oscar for best actor and won a Golden Globe award in the same category. The film explores shades of racism in the Deep South, spanning from the years immediately after World War II to the height of the civil rights movement. Freeman considers his role in "Street Smart" the pivotal moment of his career. He was nominated for an Academy Award as well as a Golden Globe for playing a pimp trying to strike a deal with a reporter, portrayed by the late Christopher Reeve. Critics lauded the movie as one of the most immersive film experiences of the 1980s — thanks in no small part to Freeman's performance. Freeman could not escape typecasting when it came to his supporting role in "Robin Hood: Prince of Thieves." He plays Azeem, sidekick to the famed altruist of Sherwood Forest, portrayed by Kevin Costner. Despite receiving praise for Freeman's performance, the film got mixed reviews at the time of its release. In the end, however, the film became a vehicle to propel both actors' careers. Considered one of the best movies of the 1990s, "The Shawshank Redemption" brought together two of the tallest actors in Hollywood: Morgan Freeman and Tim Robbins. The film is as much of a feel-good movie as a prison story can be, with an elaborate plot that takes the audience on a 142-minute journey through the realities of incarceration in the United States in the mid-20th century. Starring opposite Brad Pitt in "Seven," Morgan Freeman played the role of a near-retirement-age cop investigating a series of murders inspired by the seven deadly sins from the Old Testament. Part psycho-thriller and part neo-noir, the genre-bending film was a big success at the box office and with critics alike. Freeman proved how he had matured as an actor over the previous 15 years. Having paid his dues in supporting roles, Morgan Freeman displayed the full scope of authority and poise only he can demand with his stunning performance as US President Tom Beck in "Deep Impact." The movie chronicles the approach of a comet threatening to extinguish all life on Earth. Freeman's performance makes for gripping storytelling, complementing the movie's outstanding special effects. Freeman played God in "Bruce Almighty" in a role that brilliantly combined his famous gravitas with his more light-hearted nature. The film tells the story of Bruce Nolan (played by Jim Carrey) trying to gain back control of his life using God's powers — awarded to him by the Almighty himself. Freeman reprised the same role four years later in "Evan Almighty," which follows a similar pattern. Older and wiser, Freeman started embracing the kinds of roles that would have him playing mentor figures. In "Million Dollar Baby" he coaches a female boxer (played by Hillary Swank), who eventually reaches the top of her game — only to come to a tragic end. The movie performed remarkably well and reaped numerous accolades, with Freeman winning an Oscar as best supporting actor. Getting Jack Nicholson and Morgan Freeman to star alongside each other is a real treat for any bonafide movie enthusiast. But to see them take on such difficult subjects as terminal illness and unfulfilled desires with humor and spirit makes "The Bucket List" one of the best movies of its time. Another career highlight for Morgan Freeman: In 2010, he got to play South African President Nelson Mandela in "Invictus," earning another Oscar nomination. The movie is set right after the end of apartheid, as Mandela tries to get the nation to back the traditionally white-dominated sport of rugby for the World Cup. Freeman's supporting role as Sheik Ilderim in the epic international remake of "Ben Hur" shows his versatility and experience. He exudes a distinct notion of power as the mentor of Judah Ben-Hur (played by Jack Huston). The movie unfortunately bombed at the box office, in part due to it being Hollywood's fifth attempt at adapting Lew Wallace's 1880 novel. Morgan Freeman seems to get even better with age. In the heist comedy "Going in Style," Freeman robs a bank after his pension is canceled. Hilarious and gripping at the same time, Freeman demonstrates his prowess as a multifaceted performer once more. As he turns 85, Freeman's distinctive deep voice remains a highlight in various productions. He's shown here in a still from the 2021 Amazon sci-fi TV series "Solos," where he plays the role of a patient in an Alzheimer's facility, who turns out to be a memory thief. Author: Sertan Sanderson Ghanaian economist Tsonam Cleanse Akpeloo told DW that the decision to run to the IMF was "to be expected because the country relied very heavily on imports." "In fact about 70% of things used in the country are imported so any distortion in the international global economic order will affect us [Ghana]," Akpeloo said. He added that Ghana's economy had already been struggling, so the pandemic and the Ukraine war were only going to send it into a state of high distress. Ghana's government has also been criticized for spending excessively at a time when its revenue mobilization was in crisis. That was one of the major causes of the current economic woes, according to some analysts. "At the end of the day because of the high expenditure and for that matter high spending vis-a-vis decreasing levels of revenue, there was no option for government than to resort to going to IMF in order to restore fiscal discipline," Akpeloo said. Ghana has spent on average $19.6 billion just to service interest payments on previous borrowing. Rating agencies have already downgraded Ghana's economy, making it difficult for the government to borrow more. The government pushed through an electronic levy on mobile money transactions, a policy that received a lot of opposition from Ghanaians and led to a reduced patronage of electronic payment systems. The expected revenue from the new tax fell below expectations and with no other way to shore up the country's finances, the president ordered for a negotiation with the IMF for a bailout. Akpeloo said Ghana doesn't lack resources to maintain a vibrant economy, but what it lacked was "discipline. The discipline to spend." The Akufo-Addo government won the 2016 election on the promise of ambitious programs like free senior high school, and the building of factories in every district of Ghana among others. Such social programs have been identified as contributing to the government's high-spending portfolio. According to Akpeloo, "most of the decisions [government programs] are more political than economic, which is unfortunate." For him it is important that governments are more disciplined in spending since most of their projects "are so ambitious without corresponding source of revenue financing so there is always deficit financing and putting enormous pressure on the public purse." Ellen Johnson Sirleaf was the first elected woman leader of an African state. As president of Liberia from 2006 to 2018, she worked to fight unemployment, national debt, and Ebola. Johnson Sirleaf won the 2011 Nobel Peace Prize for her commitment to security and the rights of women. Today she chairs a UN High-Level Panel on Migration in Africa. Sahle-Work Zewde is the president of Ethiopia since October 2018. The role is considered largely ceremonial as power lies with the prime minister and the Council of Ministers. Zewde's election is considered a great step forward in Ethiopia, where men dominate politics and business. Half of the Ethiopian cabinet is made up of women. Louise Mushikiwabo, the former foreign minister of Rwanda, becomes Secretary General of the International Organization of La Francophonie in 2019. Mushikiwabo was elected despite the fact that Rwanda replaced French with English as the main language for administration, business and education a decade ago. Her appointment is seen as a diplomatic triumph, supported by the French president. Nigerian Amina Mohammed has been deputy secretary general of the United Nations since January 2017. She had worked with the UN on the Millennium Development Goals from 2002 to 2005, Mohammed later served as special advisor to the then UN Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon and worked for a year as Nigeria's environment minister under President Muhammadu Buhari. In Namibia, Prime Minister Saara Kuugongelwa-Amadhila has led the government since March 2015, when she became the first woman to do so. She previously served as finance minister, pursuing the ambitious goal of reducing the national debt. The economist has been a member of Namibia's National Assembly since 1995. Isabel dos Santos, the daughter of Angola's ex-president Jose dos Santos, is Africa's wealthiest woman. She amassed some of her wealth after her father made her director of the state-owned oil company in 2016. The new president of Angola dismissed her in one of his first official acts and initiated a corruption probe. Jaynet Kabila, the twin sister of the Democratic Republic of Congo President Joseph Kabila and daughter of the former president Laurent Kabila, is known for her secrecy and diligence. She is a lawmaker who owns a television, Internet and radio company. In 2015, the French magazine Jeune Afrique declared her to be the most influential person in government. Kamissa Camara, the youngest and first female foreign minister in the history of Mali, is a newcomer to foreign policy. The 35-year-old was appointed to cabinet by re-elected President Ibrahim Boubacar Keita and is now one of 11 women in a government comprised of 32 cabinet ministers. Nigerian Folorunsho Alakija is worth $1.6 billion (€1.4 billion). The oil production in Nigeria country makes the owner of Famfa Oil the third richest person in the country. Forbes Magazine lists her among the richest people worldwide. The 67-year-old has a foundation that supports widows and orphans. Author: Silja Fröhlich There are fears that an IMF-backed program will signal the end to some of the ambitious social intervention programs — something that can ultimately hurt ordinary citizens. Akufo-Addo assured that "we will be in a position, not only to negotiate, but implement a good arrangement. We have done it before and we will do it again." Often under such austerity measures, focus is placed on cutting government spending in the short-term to restore long-term fiscal stability and restore investor confidence in the economy. Workers unions such as the Ghana Trades Union Congress (TUC) have already condemned the decision to go to the IMF, fearing a freeze on hiring public sector workers. In a statement, the TUC said going to the IMF wasn't good for Ghanaian workers, insisting the solution to the country's economy doesn't lie in organizations like IMF. A female student in the Sally Borkete-La public university told DW that it is becoming routine for Ghana to approach the IMF — something she abhors. "It is too much [borrowing] because Ghana has gone for a lot of loans. Just this government, it has gone for a lot of loans. It's too high, they going for more is just going to cause much damage," she said. Another woman, Naa Norley Nortey, told DW that although the IMF is there for Ghana to borrow money from, "there is one disadvantage of IMF." She refered to the spiraling debt and interest payments which future governments ultimately have to deal with. A Beninese military armored personnel carrier patrols the streets of Porga, a town on the border with Burkina Faso. The northern regions of Benin are now militarized due to numerous incursions by jihadist fighters. The latest attack took place on 26 June, 2022, when a police station in Dassari, in the Atacora department, was attacked by armed men who killed two police officers. At checkpoints around of Porga, all vehicles are screened to prevent jihadist infiltration. Most of the attacks that hit Benin were claimed by the the Support Group for Islam and Muslims (GSIM) jihadist alliance which is trying to expand its influence into the Gulf of Guinea countries. The insecurity has directly threatened Father Igor Armand Kassah, a Catholic priest serving in the parish of Christ-Roi in Porga, who can no longer carry out his religious duties. Since December 2021, the area around Porga has suffered four attacks by extremists. Dozens of seized motorbikes are parked outside the Beninese gendarmerie headquarters in Porga. Most belong to suspected jihadists. According to authorities, there have been hundreds of arrests of presumed militants since June 2021. Today, experts claim that extremist microcells may be recruiting among the local population. Mounou Y'Moussa is the imam of Porga's central mosque and has already faced several threats from alleged extremists. According to him, the Islamic community has started suffering intimidation and some have been urged to fight. "Now everyone is afraid, and those who know something about jihadists do not have the bravery to come out and denounce them." "Religion is exploited by criminal extremist groups who play on the resentment of marginalized and poor communities to extend their networks and further their illegal trafficking," explains Professor Oswald Padonou of the Beninese Association of Strategic and Security Studies (ABESS) Porga is located within the buffer zone of the Pendjari National Park. It's an inaccessible area where jihadists have found a strategic shelter. The armed rangers of the South Africa-based organization African Parks, which manages the reserves, have been victims of attacks in recent months and are now engaged in military operations. Benin's northern regions are the most affected by the climate crisis. Temperatures could rise by 2 degrees Celsius by 2060. Rainfall has decreased dramatically, soil erosion has increased and droughts are more frequent. Desertification is now a reality, as well as severe deforestation. Tanguieta, a town in the Atacora department, is among the main urban agglomerations in northern Benin with a steadily increasing population, as evidenced by the average growth of 3% across the country. At the same time, water resources and fertile land are diminishing — increasing friction among communities. Workers load a huge truckload of cotton just outside a village in Atacora. In recent years, Benin has become one of Africa's largest cotton producers. In 2021, production broke all previous records. This crop is driving deforestation, creating environmental damage and increasing social resentment. A young Peul man leads his herd of zebu to graze in the Tounkountuna district. Transhumance for the semi-nomadic Peul has been getting harder. With land in short supply and water resources scarce, disputes with sedentary ethnic groups are escalating. Simplice Mangopa is an experienced Wama ethnic farmer from the village of Boribansifa, south of Pendjari Park. In January 2022, he was directly involved in clashes with Peul community members. In recent years, an escalation of intercommunal violence has been recorded in north-central Benin. Since 2017, violent events in Benin have increased by 30%. Simplice Mangopa examines a wound on his son, who was hit by a bullet during a clash in his village last January. "The Peul problem is a very urgent one. There is no longer enough land or water for everyone. The authorities assured us that they would find another place for the Peul, but I know it is not possible." Mangopa says. In the Bona village of Tanguieta, a group of villagers settle a dispute under a large mango tree. Lack of resources and internal migration are changing ancient social relations. It is in this context that extremism seeks to expand, taking advantage of the absence of institutions in order to penetrate deeper into the region. Author: Marco Simoncelli, Davide Lemmi For Yeboah — who is also a leader of a traders association in Ghana — the government's decision to seek an IMF bailout could be legitimate. "They have the data and if looking at the data, they feel that at this crucial time it is best going to the IMF, we as traders we are always looking for best out of the lot," Yeboah said. According to him, traders want the economic situation to improve, but are not prepared for austerity measures that mean more taxes. "All that we pray is that we don't get taxes going up again, because the taxes are already high and therefore if they could really cut down certain expenditure, check some tax exemptions and other loopholes, I think we would be on the right path," Yeboah explained. An IMF team has already visited Ghana to hold initial talks with Ghanaian officials. Akpeloo told DW that once a deal is secured there would be implications for Ghana's economy. "In the immediate terms an IMF program will help stabilize the economy and restore discipline which has been lacking. So that discipline which is lacking will be restored. At least in the short-term," he said. According to Akpeloo, over time the deal should put the economy back on track. But he had some reservations, saying "the only challenge would be the future of it, because it looks like it is cyclical, like after every four years you go back and it is really not good for a country which is yearning to be developed." Akpeloo said it is an indictment on managers of the economy to always enter into an IMF program in order to be disciplined with spending. "You don't need an IMF to be disciplined. As a nation you have to demonstrate that on your own, you can be disciplined, fiscally," Akpeloo said. "You should be able to spend on things that are sustainable and that the excessive profligate spending that has characterized our political activities has to be minimized." Ghana is running out of time, though, to salvage its economy with the IMF team that visited the country this month saying in a statement that it's "fiscal and debt vulnerabilities are worsening fast amid an increasingly difficult external environment," the IMF said after the team's visit this month. The statement said "an IMF-supported program aims to provide space for Ghana to implement policies." There is no signal suggesting when the next meeting will take place, but should a deal happen it could take months, and likely that would be in 2023. Edited by Keith Walker