When it's high season on the Spanish tourist island of Mallorca, it's not unusuall to have up to ten aircraft on the horizon at the same time. Exactly 2014 arrivals and departures were scheduled at Palma's airport last weekend — an average of one takeoff or landing every 90 seconds. During the summer months, this is the normal volume of air traffic for Mallorca. "There are few places in the world that contribute as much to global warming as Mallorca," criticizes Jaume Adrover, spokesman for the Mallorcan environmental group Terraferida. "And this is due to only one activity: tourism." Over the past 20 years, he says, the island's airport has registered 1.4 million aircraft movements with 194.5 million passengers — the majority of them: vacationers from countries such as Germany and Great Britain. The consequences of the island's tourism strategy for the climate are enormous, Adrover says. In the course of the past two decades, 100 trillion tons of CO2 alone have been emitted by air traffic on Mallorca. An airplane every 90 seconds: the normal volume of traffic in the skies over Mallorca The Balearic island is just one particularly extreme example. According to experts, tourism causes about 8% of global greenhouse gas emissions. "At first glance, that may not sound like much," says Wolfgang Strasdas, head of research at the Center for Sustainable Tourism at Eberswalde University of Applied Sciences. But, he adds, there aren't many other industries that account for a larger share. Nevertheless, every single one of them must make a contribution to saving, he explains. "Tourism is an important industry when we talk about reducing greenhouse gas emissions." First and foremost, it's about mobility. That's because most of the emissions are caused by travel to and from the destination. "Of course, what I eat on vacationalso plays a role." For example, tourists eat a much more "emissions-intensive" diet, such as eating more meat than usual and because of the food buffets at hotels and restaurants. According to the German Hotel and Restaurant Association, between just under 17 to nearly 50 kilograms of CO2 are being produced per guest and overnight stay, depending on the star category of the hotel. Water consumption per person in five-star hotels, on the other hand, is a staggering 522 liters a day. The cruise industry also has a lot of catching up to do.  "Although individual pilot projects give cause for hope, the industry as a whole is not yet on course to meet the targets of the Paris Climate Agreement in time," says environmentalist group NABU, for example. A trip on a cruise ship is not by any means climate-friendly The tourism industry has realized that the days of carefree travel are over. "We can't go on like this," said Norbert Fiebig, President of the German Travel Association (DRV). Air travel and the emissions caused by it are the industry's "Achilles' heel". The goal must be CO2-neutral mobility. The World Tourism Organization also places the onus on the industry itself. CO2 emissions from tourism rose by 60% between 2005 and 2016, according to the so-called Glasgow Declaration, which was presented at the UN Climate Change Conference 2021 and which 600 representatives of the tourism industry have now signed. They all pledged to become climate-neutral by 2050 at the latest. Cities like Barcelona, but also Venice and Amsterdam are groaning under the flood of tourists  But that will not be easy. After all, the aviation industry, of all sectors, is unlikely to see any fundamental change, at least in the short term.  "Progress in this area has been so slow that serious doubts are warranted about the aviation industry's ability to achieve its zero-emissions target by mid-century," criticizes the think tank Transport & Environment. Waiting for alternative fuels to be developed could prove counterproductive, it says, as large-scale production is still a long way off. In addition, the volume of air travel continues to increase year after year, which negates any savings. "As of now, flying less is the most effective way to reduce emissions." Flying is responsible for the majority of the tourism industry's emissions Another problem can be seen even at a cursory glance at internet search engines: Anyone looking to book a last-minute vacation on Mallorca in August, for example, can find flights from Germany for as little as 140 euros — there and back, mind you. For tourism researcher Wolfgang Strasdas, the matter is clear: "That's far too cheap." Air fares need to reflect true costs, tax advantages still enjoyed by the airline industry need to be eliminated, and an international CO2 emissions trading system needs to be introduced, he argues. The fact that many people might then no longer be able to afford a vacation to Mallorca is not something he considers problematic. "It's not a human right," he says. "It's not about taking away someone's ability to have a vacation." He says people can also travel to the Mediterranean by train or go on vacation to the Baltic Sea. Jaume Adrover would also like to see a reduction in the number of vacationers coming to Mallorca. But he doesn't really believe in it happening. He is for instance concerned about the investment plans currently being made by the airport operator. In Palma alone, the airport operator is investing around 200 million euros in modernization measures, according to official sources. Adrover suspects, however, that the airport's capacity is to be clandestinely expanded. Then it would be even more crowded in the skies over the island. This article was originally written in German On July 3, the pinnacle of the Marmolada glacier in Italy's Dolomites broke loose, releasing a landslide that overwhelmed dozens of hikers and killed seven. "We heard a loud noise," an eyewitness told the Ansa news agency. "We saw an avalanche of snow and ice heading towards the valley at high speed, and we knew something bad had happened." An intense heat wave had gripped Italy since late June. The world's mountains are rugged, but delicate. They have a huge impact on even distant lowlands but are highly sensitive to climate change. Temperatures are rising significantly faster in mountain areas, well outpacing other habitats. As a result, snow and glaciers are disappearing with consequences for water systems, biodiversity, natural disasters, agriculture and tourism. The Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change says lower elevation snow cover could fall by as much as 80% if emissions continue unabated. Glaciers, too, are retreating, with a similar melt expected in the European Alps at current levels of CO2 output. At least a quarter of the world's permafrost is in high mountain areas. As permafrost thaws, it will release vast amounts of greenhouse gases. The changing climate has a deep impact on water systems, but the effects change over time. Initially, glacier-fed river systems rise in flow with accelerated melting. But in areas with much-reduced glacier cover, such as Peru's Cordillera Huayhuash mountain range, rivers weaken due to less seasonal melt. Many areas with smaller glaciers have already hit that turning point. Climate change has altered the make-up of wildlife in mountain areas. Some flora and fauna, including lowland bird species, are winners, as more areas open up for them to thrive. But this comes at a cost to species adapted to the cold, such as snowshoe hares in North America and snow leopards in Central and South Asia, which have to move higher up the mountains to survive. Retreating glaciers and thawing permafrost make mountain slopes less stable, leading to more frequent rockfalls, landslides and flooding. Wildfires are on the rise, particularly in the western US, where snow is melting sooner. And melting glaciers will also release heavy metals, such as mercury, and other legacy contaminants. Almost 10% of the world's population lives in high mountain regions. But life there is becoming more marginal with worsening economic opportunities and a higher risk of natural disasters. The aesthetic, spiritual and cultural aspects of mountain landscapes are impacted, too. The Indigenous Manangi community in Nepal, for example, sees the loss of glaciers as a threat to their ethnic identity. As temperatures rise, mountain farming and tourism take an economic hit. Equally, high-altitude infrastructure — such as roads, railways, pipelines and buildings — suffer as the foundations on which it was built destabilize. In some areas, thawing glaciers have revealed mining opportunities, but taking advantage of this can cause other problems, like pollution. Less snow and thawing permafrost have hurt the skiing, glacier tourism and mountaineering sectors. In Bolivia, which has lost half its glaciers over the last 50 years, the world's highest ski resort is a sad display of rusted ski lifts. Ski resorts are now relying on artificial snow at great environmental cost, while others are pivoting to alternative sports to account for shorter seasons. As glaciers shrink, ultimately reducing the amount of water that flows down to rivers and valleys, local farmers are facing lower agricultural yields. This is combined with reduced access to electricity as hydropower operations suffer. In Nepal, farmers are dealing with drying soils, making it harder to grow potatoes and fodder. But others are switching to new crops suitable for warmer climes. Author: Alistair Walsh