Food security dominated the agenda at the 41st Ordinary Session of the Executive Council of the African Union in Zambia's capital Lusaka. The summit's theme of "Building Resilience in Nutrition on the African Continent" highlighted the ongoing food challenges that have gripped Africa. A combination of several factors, including a three-year drought in the Horn of Africa, the 2020 locust swarms, Ethiopia's Tigray conflict, the economic effects of the COVID pandemic, and the war in Ukraine, are all piling on pressure on Africa's food systems. According to the UN, 278 million people in Africa lacked access to adequate food in 2021 — before Russia invaded Ukraine. Scorching temperatures have been fueling wildfires in several countries. A fire in Spain has so far burnt out at least 4,000 hectares of land, local officials said. Italy, Croatia, France and Portugal all reported forest fires that were linked to the high temperatures this week. Heatwaves are becoming more frequent and intense due to climate change, scientists say. The start of July brought the fourth set of floods in 18 months to the Australian state of New South Wales. The Greater Sydney area was especially affected, with eight months worth of rain falling in just four days. Roads were turned into rivers and tens of thousands of people evacuated from their homes. Prime Minister Anthony Albanese said the repeated floods proved the need for climate action. Storms have lashed Pakistan since mid-June, killing more than 70 people and damaging homes, roads, bridges and power stations. The country's minister for climate change said the recent rains were 87% heavier than the average downpour and that Pakistan should be ready to face more flooding as the warming world causes the country's glaciers to melt faster. After scarce winter rains and months of drought, the Italian government declared a state of emergency in five regions. It will remain in place until the end of the year. Cities and districts have independently imposed restrictions on water usage. It is the most serious water crisis for 70 years in the country's Po basin region, which is vital for Italy's agriculture and livestock. Even before the US wildfire season has officially begun, parts of the country are in flames. A fire erupted in northern California at the beginning of July and more than doubled in size overnight forcing hundreds of evacuations. It is just one of many fires burning across the state, 96% of which is experiencing drought, according to the United States Drought Monitor. China is sweltering under the worst heatwave in decades. Scorching heat hit parts of the country in June and July, and air-con demand caused the electricity load in the eastern province of Henan to hit a new record. Meanwhile, the south has had heavy rain and floods. The government has blamed the extremes on climate change, which it says will increasingly impact both society and the economy. Landslides and flooding following torrential rains wiped away housing in Brazil's northeastern Pernambuco state in May, killing at least 100 people. Favelas built on hillsides are prone to such disasters and experts say climate change contributes to more intense rainfall. The IPCC classified the low-lying metro region around the Pernambuco capital of Recife as one of the world's most vulnerable. In April, intense rains hit the eastern coast of South Africa, causing floods and landslides that claimed more than 400 lives, destroyed over 12,000 houses and forced an estimated 40,000 people from their homes. A World Weather Attribution study found that climate change made the rains in South Africa twice as likely and up to 8% more intense. East Africa is experiencing one of the worst droughts in decades. It started last year and is still ongoing after a fourth season of failed rains. Up to 20 million people are now at risk of severe hunger. Scientists say the decline in the spring rainy season, which is tied to warmer waters in the Indian Ocean, causes rains to fall rapidly over the ocean before reaching land. Author: Anne-Sophie Brändlin, Sarah Steffen Ambassador Josefa Sacko, AU commissioner for agriculture painted a grim picture of the world's food security situation. "The number of people affected by hunger, globally, rose to as many as 828 million people in 2021, due to COVID 19," Sacko said, adding that it was an increase of about 150 million. She also reminded delegates of the impacts of Russia's war in Ukraine, involving two of the biggest global producers of staple cereals, oil, and fertilizer. "We know that our continent is really dependant on imports, which we, as the African Union, if this is the agenda we want, we have all the advantage to produce, ourselves and we should stop all this importing [of] food from outside." Food prices are rising across the continent Zambia, which hosted the AU gathering, urged other African countries to increase agricultural productivity to combat food insecurity. Zambian President Hakainde Hichilema urged member nations to step up their efforts in transforming the continent's agricultural potential into growth to end hunger and malnutrition. "We need to also ensure that we improve our ability to produce food beyond the rainy seasons of our countries," Hichilema told delegates. Locusts, boosted by drought, heavy rains and warm temperatures, have devastated crops in East Africa. Pesticides can help, though they're not exactly environmentally friendly. Scientists in Nairobi have experimented with fungi and other microbes to make safer poisons. They've also used the locusts' unique smell, which changes as they mature, to break up swarms and even drive them to cannibalism. Wildfires are increasing in frequency and intensity worldwide, and Africa is no exception. In Botswana, firefighters are learning the age-old techniques of Australia's northern Indigenous people. They prevent bigger fires by preemptively burning away grass and dry leaves, preserving biodiversity and reducing CO2 emissions. Angola, Namibia, Zambia, Zimbabwe and Mozambique could also benefit. People in Zimbabwe are also looking to the past to plan for the future. Faced with flooding linked to climate change, some are reviving ngazi, traditional thatched homes on stilts. These elevated structures, about 2 meters (6.5 feet) above the ground, are making a comeback along the Zambezi River. They protect inhabitants from floods while keeping them cooler than brick homes. Namibia is one of southern Africa's most arid countries, and it's expecting longer, more intense droughts in the future. Windhoek, with more than 400,000 people, has already anticipated that problem. Back in 1968, the city installed the word's first water recycling plant, reclaiming sewage for drinking water in a 10-step process. Expanded in 2002, it continues to deliver a reliable water supply. Maps are crucial for helping communities prepare for increased risks of flooding, landslides and storms linked to climate change. And, yet, many African maps are rarely updated — even in urban areas, where rapid unplanned growth can stay hidden for years. Drones can help planners get an updated view, while machine learning uses satellite data to develop risk maps for cities and agricultural areas. Hydroponics, raising plants without soil, has allowed some farmers to grow crops with very little water or space. It's a great option for Africa's arid regions, but such setups require a constant supply of electricity — not ideal in places with frequent power outages. Two mechanical engineering students in South Africa have designed a new pipe system that only requires power for four hours a day. Farms in low-lying areas such as Egypt's Nile Delta are threatened by rising seas and salty water. Some people have begun to look to China (above) for ideas on how to raise fish and grow plants in the same space. Aquaponics helps preserve scarce fresh water, and crops benefit from fish waste fertilizer. To adapt, researchers are looking for plants and fish species more suited to brackish water. Author: Martin Kuebler "Which means irrigation, it means appropriate technology, efficient technologies, to use to the maximum, the water that is available, in our countries and on our continent." Hichilema, elected last year and who inherited $17.3 billion (€17.3 billion) in debt from the previous government, recently said the southern African nation aims to contribute significantly to the fight against food insecurity. Like most other African countries, Zambia's economy depends heavily on agriculture and agribusiness. The sectors contributed around 20% of the country's GDP and roughly 12% of its export revenues, according to the World Bank. In addition, the agriculture industry employs nearly 70% of Zambia's workforce, making it the primary source of income for most people living in rural areas. The Horn of Africa and East Africa are experiencing a severe drought Former and current heads of state graced the meeting and celebrities, including British actor Idris Elba, whose parents came from West Africa. "I'm a son of the soil and a very proud one," Elba, a passionate food security activist, told the AU meeting via video link. "I  think in these times, we do need to partner, creatively — governments, business and artistes, together to achieve ambitious agendas. As we just saw in Sri Lanka, there can be no peace, if there's no food and there can be no security when the citizens are hungry, desperate and do not see a viable future." Senegalese President Macky Sall, the current AU chairperson, told reporters during a press briefing that leaders agreed to actualize the implementation of the African Continental Free Trade Area (AfCFTA) to promote trade and enhance integration. He also called on member states to accelerate the integration process and promote value addition to raw materials through increased industrialization. Morgan Freeman (far right) launched his career in acting with the 1970s educational series "The Electric Company." The humorous show also featured Bill Cosby (second from left) and was directed at an audience of school children learning key language skills. It is said, however, that Freeman does not look back kindly on those early years of light entertainment and sketch comedy. Morgan Freeman had his silver screen debut playing opposite Robert Redford in "Brubaker." The movie was loosely based on a prison scandal from 1967, detailing forced labor, corruption, rape and extrajudicial killings at Arkansas penitentiaries at the time. Freeman's performance as a deranged inmate showcased his refined acting skills at this early point in his career. One of the roles that Freeman is best remembered for is "Driving Miss Daisy," which went on to score numerous awards. Freeman himself was nominated for an Oscar for best actor and won a Golden Globe award in the same category. The film explores shades of racism in the Deep South, spanning from the years immediately after World War II to the height of the civil rights movement. Freeman considers his role in "Street Smart" the pivotal moment of his career. He was nominated for an Academy Award as well as a Golden Globe for playing a pimp trying to strike a deal with a reporter, portrayed by the late Christopher Reeve. Critics lauded the movie as one of the most immersive film experiences of the 1980s — thanks in no small part to Freeman's performance. Freeman could not escape typecasting when it came to his supporting role in "Robin Hood: Prince of Thieves." He plays Azeem, sidekick to the famed altruist of Sherwood Forest, portrayed by Kevin Costner. Despite receiving praise for Freeman's performance, the film got mixed reviews at the time of its release. In the end, however, the film became a vehicle to propel both actors' careers. Considered one of the best movies of the 1990s, "The Shawshank Redemption" brought together two of the tallest actors in Hollywood: Morgan Freeman and Tim Robbins. The film is as much of a feel-good movie as a prison story can be, with an elaborate plot that takes the audience on a 142-minute journey through the realities of incarceration in the United States in the mid-20th century. Starring opposite Brad Pitt in "Seven," Morgan Freeman played the role of a near-retirement-age cop investigating a series of murders inspired by the seven deadly sins from the Old Testament. Part psycho-thriller and part neo-noir, the genre-bending film was a big success at the box office and with critics alike. Freeman proved how he had matured as an actor over the previous 15 years. Having paid his dues in supporting roles, Morgan Freeman displayed the full scope of authority and poise only he can demand with his stunning performance as US President Tom Beck in "Deep Impact." The movie chronicles the approach of a comet threatening to extinguish all life on Earth. Freeman's performance makes for gripping storytelling, complementing the movie's outstanding special effects. Freeman played God in "Bruce Almighty" in a role that brilliantly combined his famous gravitas with his more light-hearted nature. The film tells the story of Bruce Nolan (played by Jim Carrey) trying to gain back control of his life using God's powers — awarded to him by the Almighty himself. Freeman reprised the same role four years later in "Evan Almighty," which follows a similar pattern. Older and wiser, Freeman started embracing the kinds of roles that would have him playing mentor figures. In "Million Dollar Baby" he coaches a female boxer (played by Hillary Swank), who eventually reaches the top of her game — only to come to a tragic end. The movie performed remarkably well and reaped numerous accolades, with Freeman winning an Oscar as best supporting actor. Getting Jack Nicholson and Morgan Freeman to star alongside each other is a real treat for any bonafide movie enthusiast. But to see them take on such difficult subjects as terminal illness and unfulfilled desires with humor and spirit makes "The Bucket List" one of the best movies of its time. Another career highlight for Morgan Freeman: In 2010, he got to play South African President Nelson Mandela in "Invictus," earning another Oscar nomination. The movie is set right after the end of apartheid, as Mandela tries to get the nation to back the traditionally white-dominated sport of rugby for the World Cup. Freeman's supporting role as Sheik Ilderim in the epic international remake of "Ben Hur" shows his versatility and experience. He exudes a distinct notion of power as the mentor of Judah Ben-Hur (played by Jack Huston). The movie unfortunately bombed at the box office, in part due to it being Hollywood's fifth attempt at adapting Lew Wallace's 1880 novel. Morgan Freeman seems to get even better with age. In the heist comedy "Going in Style," Freeman robs a bank after his pension is canceled. Hilarious and gripping at the same time, Freeman demonstrates his prowess as a multifaceted performer once more. As he turns 85, Freeman's distinctive deep voice remains a highlight in various productions. He's shown here in a still from the 2021 Amazon sci-fi TV series "Solos," where he plays the role of a patient in an Alzheimer's facility, who turns out to be a memory thief. Author: Sertan Sanderson Edited by Keith Walker