Mali's decision on Thursday to suspend troop rotations by the United Nations' peacekeeping mission (MINUSMA) has raised questions about how it wants to detect the terms of engagement — something some analysts fear could backfire. In a fresh blow to the mission, Egypt told the UN on Friday that it will pull its troops from Mali by mid-August, citing deadly attacks against its peacekeepers. MINUSMA — which was established in April 2013 to help the West African nation cope with a bloody jihadist campaign — has been rotating troops who serve on that mission for years. Mali's military government decision to suspend MUNUSMA follows the arrest of 49 Ivorian troops who arrived at Bamako airport aboard a special flight earlier this week. Since 1999, the UN has been trying to pacify the eastern region of the DR Congo. The mission known as MONUSCO has nearly 20,000 soldiers and an annual budget of $1.4 billion (1.3 billion euros). Despite being the largest and most expensive mission of the United Nations, violence in the country continues. UNAMID is a joint mission of the African Union and the UN in Sudan's volatile Darfur region. Observers consider the mission a failure. "The UN Security Council should work harder at finding political solutions, rather than spending money for the military's long-term deployment," says security expert Thierry Vircoulon. Since the beginning of South Sudan's civil war in 2013, nearly 4 million people have been displaced according to the UN. Some of them are being sheltered in UN compounds. But when clashes between government forces and rebels broke out in the capital Juba in July 2016, the blue helmets failed to effectively intervene. Later, the Kenyan UNMISS commander was sacked by former UN chief Ban Ki-moon. UN peacekeepers in Mali are monitoring compliance with the peace agreement between the government and an alliance of Tuareg-led rebels. But Islamist terrorist groups such as AQIM continue to carry out attacks making MINUSMA one of the UN's most dangerous military intervention in the world. Germany has deployed more than 700 soldiers as well as helicopters. MINUSCA, the UN's mission in Central Africa Republic has not helped to improve the image of the United Nations in Africa. French troops have been accused of sexually abusing children by the Code Blue Campaign. Three years on, victims haven't got any help from the UN. Since 2014, 10,000 soldiers and 1,800 police officers have been deployed. Violence in the country has receded but tensions remain. The UN mission in the Westsahara known as MINURSO has been active since 1991. MINURSO is there to monitor the armistice between Morocco and the rebels of the "Frente Polisario" who are fighting for the independence of the Western Sahara. In 2016, Morocco which has occupied this territory since 1976, dismissed 84 MINURSO staff after being angered by a statement from the UN Secretary-General. The UN mission in Ivory Coast fulfilled its objectives on June 30, 2016 after 14 years. Since 2016, the troops have been gradually withdrawn. Former Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon said this was a "turning point for the United Nations and the Ivory Coast." But only after the full withdrawal will it be clearly known whether or not the mission was successful on a long-term basis. The UN deployment in Liberia is - as in neighboring Ivory Coast - will soon be history. The soldiers are leaving by mid-2017. Since the end of the 14-year civil war, UNMIL has ensured stability in Liberia and helped build a functioning state. Liberia's government now wants to provide security for itself. The country is still struggling with the consequences of a devastating Ebola epidemic. The UNISFA soldiers are patrolling the disputed oil-rich region of Abyei. Sudan and South Sudan both claim to be rightful owners of this territory located between the two countries. More than 4,000 blue helmets from Ethiopia are deployed. Ethiopia is the world's second largest peace-keeping contributor. At the same time, the Ethiopian army is accused of human rights violations back home. UN peacekeepers in Somalia are fighting under the leadership of the African Union in a mission known as AMISOM. The soldiers are in the Horn of African country to battle the al-Shabaab Islamists and bring stability to the war-torn nation. Ethiopia, Burundi, Djibouti, Kenya and Uganda, Sierra Leone, Ghana and Nigeria have all contributed their troops for AMISOM. Author: Martina Schwikowski Ivory Coast had said the soldiers were part of the fifth MINUSMA rotation, but Malian officials described them as "mercenaries" who sought to topple the country's military-led government. Deputy UN spokesman Farhan Haq told journalists in New York on Thursday that Mali's move would have dire consequences for troops currently serving on the mission since some of the staff should have been relieved several months ago. "Rotation of contingents is crucially important for the mission's operational effectiveness and the safety and security of personnel," Haq said. The suspension of the rotations will affect the 12,261 soldiers and the 1,718 police officers of the contingents of the UN mission serving in the West African nation. Journalist-blogger Alhousseini Elhadji of Radio Jamana in Timbuktu [north of Mali] disagrees with Haq's sentiments. "I think that there are no direct consequences on the populations with regard to the suspension of the rotations of the Minusma. The consequences are much more at the level of reorganization," Elhadji told DW. However he is concerned about the toll it could have on some of those serving with the UN mission. "You know, there are soldiers who are there to do four months, others six months or maybe two months," Elhadji said. "Today with this suspension, some may do more than that before others come. Once again, the consequences will be felt at the level of the reorganization of the various contingents of the UN mission in Mali." Security expert and executive director of the West Africa Center for Counter-Extremism (WACCE), Mukhtar Mumuni Muktar, told DW that the approach by Mali's military leaders to suspend the rotation program was "dangerous." "If the goal is to cut ties with the UN mission, cut ties with France and external partners connected with France, it is a dangerous move," Muktar said as he expressed fears Mali may be on the path of ditching the UN peacekeeping mission. German expert Ulf Laessing, who heads the Sahel regional program of the Konrad Adenauer foundation, told DW the decision by Mali’s coup leaders will not be without consequences for the MINUSMA troops. "I understand that the Malians want to establish new rules for rotations as they did for the interventions of Minusma flights which must be approved in advance by Bamako," Laessing said. "The case of Cote d'Ivoire [Ivory Coast] is sensitive because Abidjan is considered a close ally of the former colonial power, France." The decision to suspend the UN mission also includes rotations that have already been scheduled, the Malian Foreign Ministry said in a statement. The suspension will last until a meeting is held to "facilitate the coordination and regulation" of the rotation of these contingents, according to the  statement read. Laessing said he hoped that "all parties will agree on a solution otherwise MINUSMA will find it difficult to operate effectively and some countries may be reluctant or hesitant when it comes to continuing to send soldiers to contribute to the mission of the UN in Mali." For Muktar, the strategy of the Malian military regime could expose the ordinary citizens to more danger should security be compromised in anyway if the rotation program impacts negatively on the mission's operations. "They [coup leaders] are moving further away from all kinds of attempts of getting them to return the country to civilian rule," Muktar told DW. Mali is currently battling an Islamist insurgency that sprung after a 2012 uprising during which Tuareg rebels took control of large sections of the north of the country, including Gao, Kidal and Timbuktu. The insurgency has since spread to neighbouring countries, killing thousands and displacing millions across West Africa's Sahel region. There have been inconsistencies though in relations to the actual mandate of the Ivorian troops in Mali after a UN spokesman in New York on Thursday said the Ivorian troops had not been deployed under the convention. A MINUSMA spokesman initially confirmed the claim by the Ivorian government that the soldiers were part of the rotation contingent. African analyst Jonathan Offei-Ansah told DW on the telephone from London that Mali's military leaders had the right to be suspicious about the presence of the Ivorian troops and cannot be faulted for trying to have a firm grips of the country's security setup. "It is just a matter of being extra cautious," Offei-Ansah said. For him Mali can justifiy being extra cautious about who comes into its territory as it fights back extremists. "The security situation in that country is very dire, so I think Mali is right to protect those pre-emptive measures," Offei-Ansah said. The United Nations has now called for a settlement of the current impasse and Offei-Ansah backs that posturing and expressed optimism that a resolution would be found very soon. "At the end of the day this matter would be resolved amicably," he said, but pointed out that it would take some time to build trust on both sides. Mali's ruling junta — which seized power in a coup in August 2020 — has been subject to EU sanctions and condemnation over election delays. It has also been criticized for its security cooperation with Russian mercenaries after France withdrew its troops from the country. The military regime appears to have taken its fate into its own hands to handle its security crisis and Offei-Ansah said it shouldn't be condemned for doing that. "After so many years of peacekeepers after so many years of foreign troops in the country, the jihadist activities haven't been abetted, so if the government feels it can resort to its own means to counter the jihadist insurgency, so be it," said Offei-Ansah, who is also publishes the Africa Briefing Magazine. African artists have long lacked representation at the Venice Biennale; the 2007 fair had only one African pavilion. Fifteen years later there are eight, including the Cameroon pavilion, which features work by photographer Angele Etoundi Essamba, among others. Her mission to "portray womankind" is reflected in her images of women who radiate strength and independence. Along with Cameroon and Namibia, Uganda is participating at Venice for the first time. Multimedia artist Collin Sekajugo presents "Radiance: They Dream in Time," which explores the theme of identity through collage images. Sekajugo is often the central figure in works that reflect on his multi-ethnic background — his mother is from Rwanda, his father from Uganda. Controversy has surrounded the entry from Namibia. Local artists have petitioned against the work by "RENN," a 64-year-old white artist, arguing it presents racist and colonial views of Indigenous peoples. The main sponsors of the event subsequently withdrew, the project "The Lone Stone Men of the Desert" was cancelled. In 2019, Ghana made its acclaimed debut at the Venice Biennale. In 2022, Nana Oforiatta Ayim is once again curating Ghana's pavilion, which presents a group show entitled "Black Star: The Museum as Freedom." Afroscope, one of the displaying artists, presents "Ashe," a work exploring the confluence of spirit, technology and elements such as water to depict dreamlike alternative realities. Artist and feminist Laetitia Ky has a devoted Instagram following due in part to the art she creates with her hair, which she shapes into diverse symbols and figures. Her art seeks to draw attention to colonial structures that continue to prevail on the African continent. These include the predominance of Western beauty ideals among women, especially in terms of their hair styling. For the Kenyan pavilion, Kaloki Nyamai contributes works that explore, among other things, the history of the Kamba communities, an ethnic group in eastern Kenya. In doing so, he engages with the orally transmitted histories and stories of his community and his own fragmented cultural memory. His work shifts between the figurative and the abstract. Representing South Africa at the Biennale alongside two other artists, Lebohang Kganye is an emerging young artist who works primarily with photography, though she also creates sculptures, performances and installations. Kganye creates imagined scenarios in her photographs by incorporating archival elements and figures from family histories but also theater and literature. Sculpture surrounded Terrence Musekiwa from a very young age; at five he was already helping his father with traditional stone carving. His visual language wrestles with conventions: He wants to simultaneously challenge Zimbabwean tradition and pay homage to it. His anthropomorphic sculptures are on show at the Zimbabwean pavilion at the Venice Biennale, which runs from April 23 to November 27. Author: Annabelle Steffes-Halmer Muktar believes that Mali would struggle to win the fight against the jihadistsit if attempted to completely cut ties with its traditional partners like the UN peacekeeping mission. "It is a dangerous situation because without these partners the situation in Mali could have been worst," he said. According to the security expert, "cutting ties with that at this moment is a dangerous situation that can further undermine security of Mali and the Sahel region." Mali's military government had tried to prolong the process of transitioning to democracy, but pledged to hold elections by March 2024 following the imposition of economic sanctions. The ruling military junta has been at odds with regional and international neighbours about its transitional programs. Muktar said the government is still not sufficiently set-up just yet to deliver a stable and secure nation, and should be cautious how it deals with its neighbours and other partners. "There is a huge military budget that is supported by its partners, the fact that you cut ties with them puts you in a difficult situation of having to fund your own security programs," Muktar said. "Having to juggling that you meeting development needs and aspirations of the people of Mali, you are talking about a complex situation." According to Offei-Ansah, regardless of the approach adopted by the Malian government, it still needs to maintain cordial relations with its neighbours, since "no country is an island on its own. You need to have good relations with your neighbours because the jihadists' activities is not restricted to Mali it is spreading across the whole Sahel." On the streets of Bamako, Malian and Ivorian residents have called for both sides to lower tensions. "I am not trying to understand who is right. We just need to find a solution," said one resident. Another Bamako resident asked the two governments to seek common ground before the [incident] leads to another situation. According to another resident in the Malian capital, "we are Africans and we must understand each other. We are all in difficult situations right now, whether it is Mali, Ivory Coast, Burkina Faso, or Niger." One passerby told DW that given the relations that exist between the two countries, Mali and Ivory Coast must first focus on diplomacy. Mali's military leaders have not stated when they intend holding a new meeting to discuss the MINUSMA rotations and it is yet to be seen what they have under their sleeves. Edited by Keith Walker I love to travel to Comoros, a volcanic archipelago in the Indian Ocean between Mozambique and Madagascar. It's the clearest seawater I've seen in Africa. I also love the island state for its breathtaking landscapes, which have been hardly touched by tourism. The climate here is tropical year-round, making it perfect for a vacation away from the crowds. Those who love luxurious tourism offerings should visit Mauritius. The island country in the Indian Ocean has many upscale hotels with private beaches and spacious facilities. It's not only an exciting mix of Africa and Asia in the cultural sense, but the scenery is very diverse too, with rainforests, mountains, stunning beaches and impressive waterfalls. Although it's now very popular with tourists, the Tanzanian island of Zanzibar is still one of my favorite destinations. Apart from the beautiful beaches, you have to visit Stone Town, the oldest part of Zanzibar City. Here you can get a feel for the island's culture while walking through walk through its narrow alleys — every evening there is delicious street food at the Forodhani Food Market. The last islands on my list, this time in the West African Gulf of Guinea, are Sao Tome and Principe, home to just over 200,000 people. Surprisingly, the islands are largely undiscovered by tourists — it's also not easy to get there, as few flights are offered. It's not difficult to find flights from abroad to the popular tourist destination of Cape Town. The port city on the southwest coast of South Africa is located on a peninsula dominated by the impressive Table Mountain. Although it's not exactly a hidden gem, I live here and love it: Where else can you surf in the morning, go climbing in the afternoon and visit a vineyard in the evening? "The smiling coast of Africa" lives up to its name. In The Gambia, it's easy to meet friendly people and relax on great beaches — there is also good tourism infrastructure. The nickname "smiling coast" also has a geographical meaning: When you look at Africa's smallest non-island country from above, its shape reminds you of a smile. The people of Sudan are incredibly kind. A Sudanese friend of mine jokingly calls it "aggressive friendliness," as one is constantly invited for tea. Few tourists travel here, however, as many governments do not recommend it due to armed conflicts in parts of the country. If you do come to Sudan, don’t miss the Meroe Nubian pyramids, which are smaller than those in Egypt but no less impressive. The vast and sparsely populated country in southwest Africa is home to the impressive Namib Desert with its high sand dunes. A trip through the country is great, but be prepared for the long drives. Namibia is also popular with safari tourists, as it is home to a variety of animal species. If you are looking for adventure rather than peace and quiet, you should visit the city of Lagos in Nigeria, home to around 20 million people. It is loud, hectic and stressful, but the cultural scene is vibrant, with lots of galleries, fashion and music. I recommend the New Afrika Shrine music venue, where Fela Kuti's son Femi often plays with his band. Maputo, the capital of Mozambique in southeast Africa, has a very special charm. Mozambican culture, Eastern Bloc architecture and well-preserved buildings from the Portuguese colonial period can all be found in this fascinating place. Those who find it too stressful can head to one of the beautiful beaches nearby. Author: Adrian Kriesch