Njobati Sylvie, a resolute restitution activist, could not hide her joy and reprieve after Germany's Prussian Cultural Heritage Foundation made the announcement that Ngonnso has been given the green light to return home. Ngonnso is a mother deity of northwestern Cameroon's Nso people. She was taken by Kurt von Pavel, a colonial officer in Cameroon, who subsequently donated her to Berlin's Ethnological Museum in 1903. "I feel super elated, it has been a journey that has culminated to a win for the Nso community, Cameroon and by and large the entire African continent," Njobati told DW in an exclusive interview. Ngonnso has a central role for the Nso as she is considered a mother deity Njobati started the Twitter campaign #BringBackNgonnso in 2020 which massively raised people's awareness. But her restitution activism actually started before that — when she decided to reconnect with her Nso heritage and trace her roots. She grew up in the Cameroon's Anglophone region with her mother and the heir apparent of the Nso community — her grandfather. He couldn't take up the leadership position because he became a Presbyterian pastor. "I grew up with my grandfather totally disconnected with my culture and tradition. I was embedded into Christianity," she told DW. Bright, contrasting colors, simplified forms, and a return to a supposedly simple life untouched by industrialization are among the features of primitivism. Ernst Ludwig Kirchner's "Still Life with Flowers and Sculptures" (1912) is a primary example. In Germany, this style was at the height of popularity when imperial Germany was a colonial power. Due to the large-scale export of objects from the colonies, the artists of the German expressionist movement, known as the Brücke artists, had easy access to non-European aesthetics. This sketch by Ernst Ludwig Kirchner was made after studying bronze reliefs from the Kingdom of Benin, which were taken and kept in storage in Dresden's Ethnological Museum. The expressionist group was especially interested by one object in the Dresden Ethnological Museum: an ornate roof beam from a Palauan meeting house. The Brücke artists even said "discovering" it in the museum was the spark that prompted them to start their artistic movement. The people in the background of this oil painting by Max Pechstein were copied from the figures depicted on the beam. French painter Paul Gauguin was certainly the most important role model for the art of the Brücke group. His Tahiti paintings brought him great fame posthumously, although he was embroiled in scandal in his lifetime. Nonetheless, his success, as well as the prospect of financial gain, was a reason for both Emil Nolde and Max Pechstein to set out for the South Sea themselves. German artist Ernst Ludwig Kirchner (pictured here with his partner Erna Schilling) preferred to be surrounded by "exotic" sculptures, tapestries, fabrics and furniture. Some of them came from the colonies, while Kirchner designed others himself — yet he had never actually traveled to any of these countries. This wooden seat with a leopard motif was long thought to be the work of Ernst Ludwig Kirchner. Yet the carving originated in what is now Cameroon, where it belonged to courtly elites. The current exhibitions in Berlin aim to research the origins of pieces such as this one, which were most likely looted, in order to understand them in their original context. In addition to the exhibition at the Brücke-Museum, a second exhibition at the neighboring Kunsthaus Dahlem aims to give voice to people who were colonized. In the pictured work, artist Lisa Hilli adds the name of the woman in the picture, laWarwakai, to an archival photograph of a white man and a woman captioned simply as "his Tolai wife" to show she was not simply a nameless subordinate. Kunsthaus Dahlem invited contemporary artists to comment on the colonial histories of works. The Brazilian artist's installation is meant to recall vases that people placed in their windows as a sign of solidarity for the abolition of slavery in Brazil. The triangular shapes and trident-like structures pay homage to Black feminism, while making a statement against racism and sexism. Author: Matthias Beckonert When she finally joined University in Yaounde — the French speaking side of Cameroon — her Anglophone background made her feel unwelcome.  This led to an identity crisis and emptiness. "I remember one day at the market someone called me an Anglofool. This was just the beginning of a backlash I received as a young person from the English speaking expression," she said. It is at the this point in her life that Njobati realized that she has been "fully covered by cultures that are not hers." "I also remember asking myself, who am I if I'm stripped off the colonial heritage, who I'm I if stripped off the English or French system of education, law or even religion," she quipped in despair. Njobati believes young people should be involved in restitution conversation But all these multiple identity crisis embolden her quest to return to her roots and try to reconnect with her original tradition and heritage. "Some of my young peers felt like I'm putting up a show. They thought like I'm not qualified to have a conversation with myself of going back to find my roots. They believe only African diasporas do such things." This journey of reidentification is what resulted to her realization that Ngonnso — "the founder of Nso community” was not in her rightful place. When she was told the history of the events that unfolded before the statue was taken from the Nso people, she felt disturbed and developed a steadfast commitment to lead the quest of its restitution. "Ngonnso was stolen from the palace, in violent expedition, the palace where it used to sit, was razed down by the German colonialists. There is no way it can continue being away from its rightful place," she said. "I remember promising my grandfather that I will ensure that we BringBackNgonnso. He also wanted to see Ngonnso back. Unfortunately my old man died before this could happen," she said introspectively. African artists have long lacked representation at the Venice Biennale; the 2007 fair had only one African pavilion. Fifteen years later there are eight, including the Cameroon pavilion, which features work by photographer Angele Etoundi Essamba, among others. Her mission to "portray womankind" is reflected in her images of women who radiate strength and independence. Along with Cameroon and Namibia, Uganda is participating at Venice for the first time. Multimedia artist Collin Sekajugo presents "Radiance: They Dream in Time," which explores the theme of identity through collage images. Sekajugo is often the central figure in works that reflect on his multi-ethnic background — his mother is from Rwanda, his father from Uganda. Controversy has surrounded the entry from Namibia. Local artists have petitioned against the work by "RENN," a 64-year-old white artist, arguing it presents racist and colonial views of Indigenous peoples. The main sponsors of the event subsequently withdrew, the project "The Lone Stone Men of the Desert" was cancelled. In 2019, Ghana made its acclaimed debut at the Venice Biennale. In 2022, Nana Oforiatta Ayim is once again curating Ghana's pavilion, which presents a group show entitled "Black Star: The Museum as Freedom." Afroscope, one of the displaying artists, presents "Ashe," a work exploring the confluence of spirit, technology and elements such as water to depict dreamlike alternative realities. Artist and feminist Laetitia Ky has a devoted Instagram following due in part to the art she creates with her hair, which she shapes into diverse symbols and figures. Her art seeks to draw attention to colonial structures that continue to prevail on the African continent. These include the predominance of Western beauty ideals among women, especially in terms of their hair styling. For the Kenyan pavilion, Kaloki Nyamai contributes works that explore, among other things, the history of the Kamba communities, an ethnic group in eastern Kenya. In doing so, he engages with the orally transmitted histories and stories of his community and his own fragmented cultural memory. His work shifts between the figurative and the abstract. Representing South Africa at the Biennale alongside two other artists, Lebohang Kganye is an emerging young artist who works primarily with photography, though she also creates sculptures, performances and installations. Kganye creates imagined scenarios in her photographs by incorporating archival elements and figures from family histories but also theater and literature. Sculpture surrounded Terrence Musekiwa from a very young age; at five he was already helping his father with traditional stone carving. His visual language wrestles with conventions: He wants to simultaneously challenge Zimbabwean tradition and pay homage to it. His anthropomorphic sculptures are on show at the Zimbabwean pavilion at the Venice Biennale, which runs from April 23 to November 27. Author: Annabelle Steffes-Halmer Njobati embarked on a strategic approach that involved rallying masses on social media to pay attention to the importance of restitution. Especially, the campaign to #BringBackNgonnso which she has been pushing through Twitter and Facebook. "Some of my peers thought that this was a waste of time and resources. But I asked myself how many people with the desire to see Ngonnso back to Cameroon will die before her restitution happens," she posed. Thanks to the campaign, the statue which was placed —  for decades — under the basement of Humboldt Ethnological Museum, was finally brought up for public display. Njobati's unending resolve brings to the forefront the conversation about young people's involvement in confronting colonial past. "Restitution of Africa's stolen artefacts is a central part of confronting colonial past. The young people should be key stakeholders in this conversation," she charged. Restitution seems a complex and non-interesting topic for average young African person. This is in consideration of the multiple challenges that affect them like unemployment to mention the least. However, according to Njobati, a true African rebirth will only be realized "when the youth get reconnected with their true heritage" and confronting colonial past is part of it. The statute of the goddess Ngonnso will be returned to the kingdom of Nso in Cameroon Germany has agreed toreturn a trove of looted African colonial artifacts. According to Njobati, the successful quest she led that began the restitution process of Ngonnso should be an encouragement to other young Africans. "For us it's Ngonnso, a sacred statue, but there are thousands of stolen African artifacts still being displayed in multiple European museums. We, the youth, should lead the quest of bringing them back,” she told DW. "I'm always asked why is it important to have the objects back, for me it's about the principle of justice. Africa has suffered colonial crimes for a long time. We must deal with these issue if we want to remain true to confronting colonial past," she further added. According to the 31-year-old restitution activist, "continued display of the artifacts at European museums is disrespectful and a simple a show of power." She further adds that "it demonstrates that the colonialists came, conquered African nations, took they their integral heritage some with spiritual significance, and are holding them captive at museums” to amplify the message. The Prussian Cultural Heritage foundation is now set to hold further talks with Nso people's representatives on how Ngonnso will arrive in back in Cameroon. Njobati is part of this talks. She now further believes this successful quest has opened possibilities of calling for the other thousands of objects being held at varied European museums. "The quest that began with the need of bring back Ngonnso will now advance to a quest to take back all the heritage that belongs to the African continent," she said. "My intention is to rally young people, historians, researchers in a bid to have what is rightful ours brought back. This is our heritage. Let the artifacts be brought back to us." Speaking to DW Prussian Cultural Heritage foundation president Hermann Parzinger said that objects that were not necessarily looted "should also be repatriated." "We are open to restitution and after the due diligence is followed we are obliged to return .... In every restitution process we must get a claim and we access them diligently and independently," Paringer added. Born in Sudan in 1979, the author writes mainly about war, escape and displacement, but also about great expectations and hopes for her native country. In early 2022, she fled to Germany with the help of the PEN writers' association. Art is a living thing that needs space to be freely expressed, accepted and supported, Gaitano says. Angele Etoundi Essamba, who comes from the francophone part of Cameroon, left her home country at the age of 10. Today she lives in the Netherlands and is considered one of the most world's successful African photographers. She draws her inspiration from the her Cameroon heritage and regularly travels back and forth between the continents. According to his Twitter bio, Bobi Wine is "one Ghetto child who has something to say through music." And that's what Robert Ssentamu Kyagulanyi, which is his given name, does as a musician, but also as a an activist and politician. In 2021, he ran against long-term president Yoweri Museveni despite massive attempts at repression. He was ultimately defeated but is fighting on. The Nigerian director, screenwriter and producer is considered one of the leading representatives of new African film. His most recent works deal with issues such as migration and human trafficking. His acclaimed documentary "No U-Turn" examines why young Africans are still forced to risk their lives to reach Europe. Born in Oxford, Akinbode Akinbiyi has Nigerian roots and now lives in Berlin. He is one of the best-known African photographers and calls himself a "wanderer between cultures and worlds." For years, he has been using his camera to capture the hustle and bustle of life in African cities — just as he does in the German capital. Author: Annabelle Steffes-Halmer Edited by: Keith Walker