This article was last updated at 0823 GMT/UTC Ukrainian forces shelled the pro-Russian separatist stronghold of Luhansk using US-supplied weapons, a separatist representative said. The shelling with the high mobility artillery rocket system (HIMARS) launcher was confirmed by separatist representative Andrey Marochko on the Telegram news channel and by the Ukrainian military. The head of the Ukrainian military administration for the Luhansk region, Serhii Haidai, said the attack was concentrated on pro-Russian separatist military depots. There were no immediate reports of casualties. German Foreign Minister Annalena Baerbock said she does not currently see peace talks with Moscow as an option to end Russia's invasion of Ukraine. "What can you negotiate about with someone who is not even ready to agree with the International Committee of the Red Cross to let civilians flee?" she said in an interview with Stern magazine. Baerbock rejected calls from a group of high-profile Germans in a recent open letter for an immediate ceasefire and talks. "If I were a Ukrainian, I would find that letter naive, disturbing and arrogant," she said. "What right does the German foreign minister have to decide for Ukraine which part of their country they should please give up, how many millions of their citizens to submit to Russian rule?" Baerbock added that she has not had direct contact with her Russian counterpart, Sergey Lavrov, since Russia began its war against Ukraine. Lavrov and Baerbock both attended the G20 foreign ministers' conference in Balilast week, but he left without listening to Baerbock's speech. A Ukrainian diaspora group said it was seeking a judicial review of Canada's decision to return a repaired turbine to Germany. "This exemption to the sanctions regime against Russia is totally unacceptable," the Ukrainian World Congress said in a statement. "There are real alternatives to Germany’s gas needs, including buying through Ukraine’s pipeline." The group said it was requesting "a declaration that the decision to provide a permit to Siemens was unreasonable and unauthorized and an order quashing the permit" from Canada's federal court. The turbine, which was being repaired by German firm Siemens in Canada, is needed in the Nord Stream 1 pipeline which pumps Russian gas into Germany. The Canadian government said on Saturday that it was issuing a " time-limited and revocable permit"  to exempt the return of turbines from sanctions on Moscow. Ukraine's Infrastructure Ministry said that monthly grain exports could be increased by 500,000 tons if its backlog is cleared through the Bystre river mouth of the Danube-Black Sea waterway. The ministry said that 16 ships passed through the newly reopened river mouth in the past 4 days. It added that passage of commercial ships became possible after Kyiv recaptured Snake Island from Russian forces and that this was an important step toward speeding up grain exports. "In the last four days, 16 ships have passed through the Bystre rivermouth," Deputy Infrastructure Minister Yuriy Vaskov said. "We plan to maintain this pace." The ministry said that the 16 ships were now waiting to be loaded with Ukrainian grain for export to foreign markets. Additionally, more than 90 vessels were waiting in Romania's Sulina canal. Vaskov said that only four ships could be received per day along the Sulina route, while a rate of eight per day was needed. Kyiv was negotiating with Romanian authorities and European Commission representatives about increasing the rate of crossings, he said. Russian and Ukrainian officials are set to meet later Wednesday in Turkey to discuss grain exports. Kyiv launched artillery barragesthat destroyed a Russian arms depot in Ukraine's southern Kherson region, Ukrainian military officials said. Officials said that Ukraine carried out a "special operation" to free military captives in the region, which is under Russian control. The strikes destroyed artillery, armored vehicles and a "warehouse with ammunition in the town of Nova Kakhovka, the officials said. Russian-backed authorities in the occupied Kherson region accused Ukrainian forces of damaging civilian infrastructure and killing at least seven people. "Warehouses were hit, as were shops, a pharmacy, petrol stations and even a church," the head of Moscow's civilian-military administration in the Kherson region, Vladimir Leontiev, said on Telegram. The deputy head of the Russian-backed administration in Kherson, Ekaterina Gubareva, said Kyiv had used US-supplied long-range, precision artillery systems in the strikes on Nova Kakhovka. "The occupiers have already felt very well what modern artillery is and they will not have a safe rear anywhere on our land," Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy said in his evening address, referring to heavy weaponry supplied by the West. European Space Agency Director General Josef Aschbacher announced the official termination of cooperation with the Russian space agency Roscosmos on the ExoMars Rover and Surface Platform mission. The death toll from a collapsed apartment block in the Donetsk region town of Chasiv Yar climbed to 45, Ukrainian emergency services said. The United States Treasury announced it will send an additional $1.7 billion (€1.7 billion) in economic aid to Ukraine to help continue funding the country's "essential services." Earlier, the Council of the European Union said it would "provide €1 billion ($1 billion) of additional macro-financial assistance (MFA) to Ukraine." United Nations chief Antonio Guterres said that "there is still a way to go" in talks to try and resume Ukraine's Black Sea grain exports. The United Nations said Tuesday that more than 5,000 civilians had been killed in Ukraine since Russia invaded on February 24, adding that the actual figure was probably much higher. Belarus President Alexander Lukashenko claimed that the West was developing "strategic plans for an attack against Russia." Ukraine's military warned that Russian troops were likely planning to launch some of their heaviest attacks yet in the eastern Donetsk region, targeting the cities of Kramatorsk and Bakhmut.Click here for more details on Monday's events in Russia's war against Ukraine. sdi/kb (AP, AFP, dpa, Reuters)