The news of Uwe Seeler's passing was confirmed by his former club, Hamburg, on Thursday, citing information received from the late striker's family. During his playing career with Hamburg and West Germany, which spanned from the mid-1950s to the early 1970s, Uwe Seeler was known as one of the world's best strikers and had many honors bestowed upon him. Three times Seeler was voted West Germany's Footballer of the Year, in 1960, 1964 and 1970 — the year he was also awarded West Germany's Federal Cross of Merit. Even though he never won a title with West Germany, in 1972 he became just the second man to be named honorary captain of the national team. He helped Hamburg to a German football championship in 1960, three years before the formation of the Bundesliga, as well as a German Cup title in 1963. However, his public image was formed not so much by his footballing achievements but more by his down-to-earth, straightforward and easy-going personality, which earned him the nickname "uns Uwe" (our Uwe).He was also widely respected for his sense of fair play, having only been sent off once in his entire career. His rejection of a high-priced offer from Inter Milan in 1961 also endeared him to the Hamburg fans. Uwe Seeler was born into a sporting family in Hamburg on November 5, 1936. His father, Erwin Seeler, was one of the city's most popular footballers from 1920s to the 1940s, so it came as no surprise when he too joined Hamburger SV in 1946. He established himself as a top goal scorer in the Oberliga Nord (then the top tier of West German football) between 1956 and 1962. When Hamburg became one of the founding members of the Bundesliga in 1963-64, Seeler became the new league's first top scorer with 30 goals. West Germany coach Sepp Herberger gave Seeler his first call up to the national team in 1954 and he made his first appearance at the age of just 17. However, it was at the 1958 World Cup in Sweden that he established himself as an international star. Three years later, he wore the captain's armband for the first time. In 1966 he was a member of the West German team that lost 4-2 to England in the World Cup final in London's Wembley Stadium. Seeler (left) played for West Germany in several World Cups Four years later, though West Germany would get their revenge in the World Cup quarterfinals in Mexico as Seeler scored with the back of his head to give them a 3-2 win over England. Shortly after that World Cup, Seeler retired from international football, making his final appearance for West Germany against Hungary in September 1970. He played his last match for Hamburg in May, 1972. However, even in his post-playing days, Seeler was never far from the game he loved. He successfully ran a clothing company and worked as a representative for a sporting goods manufacturer. He also served as president of his beloved HSV from 1995 to 1998. A sculpture of a replica of Seeler's right foot, was unveiled in 2005 and stands in front of Hamburg's home ground, the Volksparkstadion. Although he has now departed, in Hamburg and throughout Germany, Seeler will always be fondly remembered as "uns Uwe" (our Uwe). No other player is as synonymous with Hamburg as Uwe Seeler. The Hamburg native played for his hometown club from 1953 to 1972 - first in the Oberliga-Nord, the top-flight division in the north of West Germany - before the Bundesliga was founded in in 1963. Beginning in 1953, Uwe Seeler made a total of 476 appearances and scored 404 goals for Hamburg in the Oberliga-Nord and the Bundesliga. He was the Oberliga-Nord's top goal scorer seven times, including in 1954-55, when he shared the honor with teammate Günter Schlegel. He was also the top scorer in the first season of the Bundesliga, 1963-64. While Seeler enjoyed a lot of individual success - he was named West Germany's player of the year in 1960, 1964 and 1970 - Hamburg only managed to win two titles with him in the lineup; the German championship in 1960, and the German Cup in 1963. In a match against Eintracht Frankfurt in 1965, Uwe Seeler sustained a torn hamstring. In those days, such a serious injury would normally have ended a player's career. No player before him had ever comeback from a torn hamstring. However, Seeler did just that, with the help of a special shoe provided by equipment supplier Adidas. Seeler spent his entire career in Hamburg, turning down lucrative offers to move abroad. Inter Milan had even offered the German club more than a million deutschmarks for him - a fortune at the time. In 2005 this bronze statue of his right foot was unveiled in front of Hamburg's stadium, in honor of his service to the club. For much of his career, Uwe Seeler was also one of the first names on the lineup card for the national team. West Germany coach Sepp Herberger first called him up as a 17-year-old. He would go on to play a total of 72 games for West Germany, scoring 39 times. He appeared in the same four World Cups as Brazilian legend Pele from 1958 to 1970, scoring a total of nine goals. The best-remembered of his goals for West Germany was this one against England in the quarterfinals of the 1970 World Cup in Mexico. Seeler struck the ball with the back of his head, beating England goalkeeper Peter Bonetti to even the score at 2-2. West Germany went on to beat England 3-2 and advance to the semifinals, where they would lose to Italy in extra time. Seeler was also known for his sportsmanship - in victory and defeat. His sportsmanship did not go unnoticed by the English fans, who applauded not just Seeler but the rest of the West German team for how they conducted themselves after losing the 1966 World Cup on a disputed goal at Wembley. In 1972, the DFB (German football association) named Seeler the second honorary captain of the West German national team. Here he appears with the first man to receive the honor, the late Fritz Walter (left) and Franz Beckenbauer (middle), who became the third in 1982. Here, Beckenbauer was about to take part in a charity match that same year. After his playing career ended, Seeler worked as an ambassador for Adidas and for a short time he owned a petrol station. From 1995 he to 1998, he served as president of Hamburg, the football club for which he had played so many games. Seeler holds a long list of titles bestowed upon him by the city-state of Hamburg, including honorary citizen and honorary police commissioner. Berlin has honored him with the Order of Merit of the Federal Republic of Germany. Here is is seen with another of Hamburg's most famous sons, the late former West German Chancellor Helmut Schmidt. Despite his fame, the son of a Hamburg harbor laborer still has both feet planted firmly on the ground. He has been married to his wife Ilka since 1959. His recipe for a happy marriage? "I make the major decisions, she makes the minor decisions. She decides which are major and which are minor." Seeler is no longer a regular at Hamburg's home games, but he is still a keen follower of the club. Like many other fans, he has observed developments at the club in recent years with dismay. "I hope I never see Hamburg get relegated," he has said. Author: Andreas Sten-Ziemons, Chuck Penfold This article was originally published in German