Just two weeks after John Lee became Hong Kong's new chief executive, courts in Hong Kong have sentenced at least two prominent activists to jail for participating in or organizing protests. Koo Sze-yiu, a 75-year-old activist with terminal cancer, was sentenced on July 12 to nine months in jail for planning a protest against the Beijing Winter Olympics. Koo had originally planned to carry a wooden coffin to China's liaison office in Hong Kong on February 4, the opening day of the Beijing Winter Olympics, and was arrested on the day of the protest. National security police also raided his apartment. While the principal magistrate said the case required a deterrent sentence, Koo remained defiant in court, saying getting jailed is part of his life. "I don't mind being a warrior for the democracy movement, and I don't mind being a martyr for democracy and human rights," he said. A day later, 66-year-old activist Alexandra Wong, who has been nicknamed "Grandma Wong" by protesters throughout Hong Kong, was sentenced to eight months in jail for taking part in two protests that the prosecutors labeled as "unlawful assemblies." The charge against Wong is the same as the one that has been used against many protesters and some prominent pro-democracy figures since the anti-extradition bill protest in 2019. Since China imposed a controversial National Security Law (NSL) on Hong Kong in 2020, any form of public protests or gatherings have been effectively criminalized in the city while thousands of protesters and pro-democracy figures have been arrested and jailed. Some observers say these sentences send a message to Hong Kong's general public that the authorities will continue their heavy-handed crack down on civil society. "They wouldn't even distinguish between more radical and direct action versus peaceful, non-violent actions," said Maggie Shum, an expert at the Keough School of Global Affairs at the University of Notre Dame. "Anything that's against the state will be seen in the light of threatening Hong Kong's security. I think it's showing the people and civil society in Hong Kong that they shouldn't think about resisting, because the heavy prison sentences are what they could get," she added. Others have also raised concerns about how the courts in Hong Kong are handling protest-related cases. Patrick Poon, a visiting researcher at the Institute of Comparative Law at Japan's Meiji University, says the courts and judges are now largely relying on arguments provided by the prosecutors for their rulings. "We can only expect more prosecution-oriented judgment in the NSL and protest-related cases and denial of bail will become a new normal," he told DW. Poon says this trend raises questions over whether Hong Kong's judicial system still enjoys the independence that it was once known for. "In the long-term, how the judges will exert their influence on the juries and how they make their decisions based on the presentation by the prosecution instead of facts is something we need to be concerned about," he added. Shum, for her part, says Hong Kong authorities have weaponized the court to do the bidding for the government. "This is a trend that you can see in other authoritarian states, where authorities used the courts," she told DW. "In Hong Kong, we used to take pride in our rule of law, but now while there is still rule of law, the law has changed to one that serves the government, rather than serving society. Instead of carrying out outright repression, they are modifying existing institutions to make them serve the government's purpose," she added. After being sworn in as Hong Kong's new leader on July 1, John Lee said the rule of law was a fundamental value, calling the controversial security law the key instrument that helps Hong Kong to maintain stability after months of large-scale protests in 2019. John Lee is Hong Kong's new leader as of July 1 John Lee, who was Hong Kong's former security chief, has been viewed by many as playing a role in the implementation of the NSL in Hong Kong, and some activists fear that the city will become more "totalitarian" under his leadership. "The nomination of Lee by Beijing will only show that Hong Kong is going to become a more totalitarian society," said Sunny Cheung, an exiled Hong Kong activist in the US. "The situation in Hong Kong will worsen because John Lee's political task is to control and silence Hong Kong in a more comprehensive way. While the NSL has successfully dismantled Hong Kong's civil society and political opposition, Lee is still desperately trying to push for Article 23 and a new cybersecurity law for Hong Kong," he added. Hong Kongers snapped up the final print edition of pro-democracy newspaper "Apple Daily," which announced its closure after 26 years. The only newspaper of its kind left in the city, it had become a target as China steadily increases its grip over the semi-autonomous region. The final edition of 1 million copies, up from the usual 80,000, was sold out by morning. John McAfee of the eponymous antivirus software was found dead in his prison cell in Barcelona after an apparent suicide. The British-American dual citizen had been imprisoned since October and was awaiting extradition to the US under tax evasion charges. McAfee made millions off the antivirus software in the 1980s; the 75-year-old had been on a speaking circuit when he was detained. A man wearing a Germany shirt runs in front of the Hungarian team ahead of the Euro 2020 game between Germany and Hungary, after Hungary came under fire for passing an anti-LGBTQ law week. The game, played in Munich, ended in a 2-2 draw. Hungarian Prime Minster Viktor Orban reportedly canceled his attendance at the last moment, while stadiums across Germany were lit up in rainbow colors. Hundreds of armed men gather to demonstrate their support for Afghan security forces and against the Taliban. The security situation in Afghanistan has been deteriorating since the United States pushed forward its decision to withdraw all troops ahead of the 20-year anniversary of the 9/11 attacks. The Taliban are gaining ground, threatening a reversal of human rights conditions in the country. A Palestinian at a night protest against Israeli settlements in the Israeli-occupied West Bank. The recent conflict between Palestinians and Israelis in May saw both sides exchange 11 days of fire. Hundreds died in Gaza, while Israelis saw over a dozen dead. By some counts, Palestinians had fired more than 4,000 rockets; Israel's Iron Dome defense system stopped most of them. Pope Francis shakes hands with Spider-Man, as the character hands him a mask at the Vatican. Despite the coronavirus pandemic dying down in most of Europe as vaccinations pick up speed, people are being warned to stay vigilant and maintain protection measures in light of the highly contagious delta variant. The 28-year-old man in costume travels across Italy visiting sick children in hospitals. Author: Sonya Angelica Diehn, Philipp Böll In an interview with China's state newspaper the People's Daily last month, John Lee said completing the legislative work of Article 23 of Hong Kong's Basic Law is the Hong Kong government's constitutional responsibility. Article 23 of the Basic Law mandates that the Hong Kong government pass its own legislation aiming to safeguard national security. "I think these examples already prove that John Lee is being entrusted to use a more assertive and comprehensive way to rule Hong Kong," exiled Cheung told DW. While most analysts agree that the crackdown on Hong Kong's civil society will likely continue and intensify under John Lee's administration, they also think some organizations in civil society will still try to express their views by adjusting their messaging. "What we can expect from civil society in the future is that there will only be a few groups that are still willing to express their views in a less confrontational tone," Poon said. "That will reduce civil society's focus on certain issues while creating more opportunities for people to be more creative in their expressions. The situation in Hong Kong is going to be very similar to that in China, since advocates in China have been using these strategies for years," he added. Edited by: Leah Carter