"It's not really the brown girls from Jersey City who save the world," says New Jersey-based Kamala Khan — a Muslim, Pakistani-American teenager — in Marvel's new superhero series, "Ms. Marvel," as she realizes that she has access to the superpower of harnessing cosmic energy. Khan's statement reflects the fact that, until now, millions of South Asian women grew up without a superhero to call their own. Marvel's latest miniseries is set between the eastern US city and Pakistan's Karachi, where our young superhero first discovers her powers. But teenager superheroes also have to struggle with fitting in at home and in school — especially when they're first-generation immigrants with protective parents. Directed by Belgium filmmakers of Moroccan descent Adil El Arbi and Bilall Fallah, Indian-American director Meera Menon, and Pakistani-Canadian journalist Sharmeen Obaid-Chinoy, the series attempts to dispel caricaturized portrayals of South Asians in Western popular culture while giving the young superhero a unique origin story. Iman Vellani, who plays Kamala in the series, was already a Marvel fan when she chanced upon "Ms. Marvel" comics at a local bookstore. "I saw a girl who looked like me. She was Muslim and Pakistani and a superhero fanatic; and I was Muslim, Pakistani and a superhero fanatic, so it worked out quite well," she said. While the comic books weren't about her "religion or her culture or her ethnicity," they drove her identity. So when one of her aunts forwarded her a casting call from a WhatsApp group, the "Ms. Marvel" fan decided to apply. The next day, she got a call. Kamala's traditional South Asian immigrant family gathers around the table for dinner in the miniseries "Ms. Marvel" isn't a show full of heavy accents and cultural tropes. While enjoying Shah Rukh Khan trivia with a potential love interest, Kamala doesn't devolve into the so-called "Apu from The Simpsons" accent that was often linked to South Asians, or likewise people who trace their ancestry to Bangladesh, Bhutan, India, Nepal, Pakistan, Sri Lanka and the Maldives. Instead, Kamala is a regular teenager walking the tightrope between being American at school and Pakistani at home. This is a duality that she shares with nearly 5.4 million South Asians living in the United States. As she secretly struggles with her newfound superpowers, Kamala tells her local mosque leader: "I just thought it would be cool to have a superhero who actually fights for us." At her brother's wedding, the ceremony is wrapped up by a call to god: "Allahu akbar." The use of this phrase, which literally translates to "God is great," marked a step away from the demonization it has faced in Western popular culture. Here, it is used to mark a joyous occasion, with bright smiles and warm embraces. The filmmakers’ subtle nods to the nuances of South Asian culture — from shoes getting stolen from places of worship, to parents and grandparents getting their faces too close to the camera while on a video call — reached a wider audience, even those outside the Marvel universe. "My passport is Pakistani, my roots are in India. And in between all of this, there is a border. There is a border marked with blood and pain," Kamala's grandmother — or "nani" — tells her against the backdrop of the Karachi sunset. "People are claiming their identity based on an idea some old Englishmen had when they were fleeing the country," she adds, referring to the Radcliffe Line that demarcated the border between India and Pakistan as two centuries of British colonial rule came to a hasty end. She and millions of others crossed the border, leaving behind the land they called home. Marvel fan Manreet Khara, 28, an educationist in Chandigarh, India, also recognizes her own family background in "Ms. Marvel." Her grandfather is the eldest of four siblings, the youngest of which was born after the family crossed over from Pakistan's Punjab to the Indian state with the same name. "We grew up hearing stories of our grandparents' home. With the partition, we inherited this generational trauma that shaped our being," Khara tells DW. "There is a deep pain of a broken culture." When Kamala is transported to 1947, to a railway station where the last train to cross the new border is ready to pull out, she gets to experience the pain of partition firsthand. "Here, we saw generational trauma be the source of the superhero's origin story, rather than other, more immediate forms of injustice. The subject of this trauma wasn't Kamala herself, but a family, a culture," Khara tells DW. Music is one of the main pillars of the show. Kamala's background score is an amalgamation of all her identities — ranging from The Weeknd's "Blinding Lights" to Shae Gill and Ali Sethi's latest chartbuster, "Pasoori." In a scene, Kamala is seen donning a traditional kurta while fighting off villians While her parents jam to Nazia Hassan's "Disco Deewane" and Jon Bon Jovi's "Livin' on a Prayer," young Pakistani artists like Hasan Raheem, Talal Qureshi and Pakistani-Canadian Khanvict set the tone for the series’ pivotal moments. South Asian-origin sensations like the Swet Shop Boys, Ritviz, Rajakumari and Tesher add a new-age touch, while older hitmakers like Asha Bhosle, Lata Mangeshkar, S.P. Balasubramaniam and Abida Parveen make the soundtrack timeless. "I got goosebumps each time the songs played. These aren't just songs I know — they're on my timeless playlist," Khara says. Suhasini Krishnan, a 28-year-old New Delhi-based media professional, finds the partition trauma to be a storytelling cliche — even though it is also part of her own family's fate. Her uncles and aunts saw the horrors of partition as they moved from "East Pakistan" — now Bangladesh — to today's India. "The same old pitfall of diversity plotlines is that the only South Asian diaspora experience that they can front is the partition experience," she tells DW, referring to the portrayal almost as a "perverse rehashing of trauma." Her criticism is shared by many, who say that the region should not be reduced to a nostalgic notion or a homogeneous mass. "This type of nostalgia is also dangerous. We are culturally very different, even within the same country. To deny ourselves this heterogeneity is also a loss of identity," Krishnan says. Regardless, "Ms. Marvel" has taken a step toward making several South Asians, especially in the diaspora, feel seen. This is undeniably a step in the right direction, according to "Ms. Marvel" stans. The last episode of the miniseries will be released on Disney+ on July 13. An upcoming film, "The Marvels" (2023), will reprise characters from the series, including Iman Vellani as Kamala Khan. In 2011, a young Black superhero took the lead in a top-ranking US mainstream comic: Marvel Comics had Afro-Latino teenager Miles Morales slip into Spider-Man's costume, while the series with Peter Parker as the original superhero continued as well. Morales, seen here in the 2018 film adaptation "Into the Spider-Verse," acquires his abilities, like Parker, through a spider bite. T'Challa alias "Black Panther" was the first Black superhero with supernatural powers in US mainstream comic books. He was created in 1966 by Stan Lee and Jack Kirby. T'Challa is king of the fictional, vastly developed African nation of Wakanda. The acclaimed film adaptation from 2018 with Chadwick Boseman in the leading role garnered three Oscars. The first Black superhero in mainstream comics whose life was based in the US was Sam Wilson, alias "Falcon." Raised in Harlem, he works as a social worker after the violent death of his parents. The martial artist with mechanical wings and a telepathic connection to birds guards over Harlem. He has also been of service as "Captain America." The first African American superhero to appear in DC comics was John Stewart in 1971. He is part of the "Green Lantern Corps," the intergalactic militarized law enforcement organization that keeps order in the universe. As of 2012, in the continuation of the comic series, Simon Baz is also part of corps. Baz has roots in Lebanon, is Muslim and lives near Detroit, Michigan. The invulnerable ex-convict is the first Black hero with a comic series named after him: "Luke Cage, Hero for Hire" appeared in 1972 and emerged from the "Blaxploitation" genre of the 1970s. The cheap, garish productions were supposed to appeal to the previously neglected market segment of the African American population. Luke Cage now has his own series on Netflix. Eric Brooks, or "Blade, " is half-human, half-vampire. After numerous minor roles, he was given his own comic series in 1994, in which he first goes on a vampire hunt armed with wooden daggers. Later, he uses a double-edged sword for hunting — as in the three film adaptations at the end of the 90s and beginning of the 2000s, in which Wesley Snipes impersonated the hero. The descendant of an African witch priestess is one of the most popular Black comic book superheroes. "Storm," or Ororo Munroe, is born with superhuman abilities and can, as a mutant, control the weather. Since the mid-1970s, she has been an integral part of the "X-Men," who fight for peace between mutants and humans. Jefferson Pierce, born in the slums of a big city, manages to break out of his environment and wins Olympic gold as a decathlete. He returns to where he grew up to work with young people as a teacher. In the process, he comes into conflict with a delinquent gang. Equipped with a belt that gives him electromagnetic superpowers, he goes on the hunt for criminals. Victor Stone is seriously injured in an incident in his parents' lab. His father, a scientist, saves his life by turning him into a "cyborg," a hybrid of man and machine. Victor Stone alias "Cyborg" is a founding member of the "Justice League," a team of superheroes that protects Earth against alien forces. Due to a malfunction, the alien Arnus' spaceship explodes and his escape capsule lands in the South of the US. He then takes on human form, but retains his superpowers. He is virtually invulnerable and can fly. Due to the similarities to one of the greatest figures in the superhero comic genre, "Icon" is often referred to as "Black Superman." As a teenager, during a police operation, Virgil Ovid Hawkins comes into contact with radioactive tear gas which gives him superpowers. He joins the "Teen Titans" and, as "Static," watches over Dakota City. There are repeated conflicts with other teenagers who have also gained superpowers during the police incident, but who do not use them to serve the public good. Riri Williams, a 15-year-old supergenius, uses stolen materials to build himself a superhero suit that resembles "Iron Man" armor. When she later actually meets "Iron Man," he helps her in becoming a superhero. Riri is found in the comic crossover story "Civil War II," in which different groups of superheroes fight against each other, along with "Iron Man." Author: Philipp Marqua (als) Edited by: Elizabeth Grenier