This article was last updated at 12:30 UTC/GMT Germany has condemned missile strikes that killed 19 people near the Ukrainian port city of Odesa, describing attacks on civilians as war crimes. "Russian President [Vladimir] Putin and those responsible will have to be held accountable," a German government spokesman said at a briefing. Meanwhile, the number of deaths from the Russian missile strikes has increased to 19. "The death toll is 19 people," wrote Sergiy Kruk, head of the Ukrainian emergency services, on Facebook. Thirty-eight people were wounded, including six children, he added. Ukrainian borscht — which in 2023 was set to be added to the UN's list of endangered cultural heritage items — has had its inscription hastened by the "negative impact on this tradition" caused by the war, UNESCO said. Ukraine considers borshch — a thick soup usually made with beetroot — as a national dish although it is also widely consumed in Russia, other ex-Soviet countries and Poland. The culture borshch cooking in Ukraine "was today inscribed on UNESCO's list of intangible cultural heritage in need of urgent safeguarding" by a UNESCO committee. Indian Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Russian counterpart Vladimir Putin spoke by phone on Friday to discuss international energy and food markets, Modi's office said in a statement. "They exchanged ideas on how bilateral trade in agricultural goods, fertilizers and pharma products could be encouraged further," the statement said. "The leaders also discussed global issues, including the state of the international energy and food markets." The statement added that Modi had urged Putin to pursue dialogue and diplomacy over the conflict in Ukraine. Meanwhile, Putin told Modi that Russia is still a reliable producer and supplier of grains, fertilizers and energy, the Kremlin said in a readout of a phone call between the two leaders. Putin "drew attention to the systemic mistakes made by a number of countries that have disrupted free trade architecture in food goods and triggered significant rises in their prices", the Kremlin said. India continues to buy crude oil from Russia, despite Europe's keenness to wean itself off Russian energy dependence as a response to the conflict. President Vladimir Putin on Friday said pressure from the West was forcing Russia to speed up its integration with neighboring Belarus. Last week, Russian Defense Minister Sergei Shoigu said Moscow and Minsk must take urgent joint measures to enhance their defensive capabilities, as well as their troops' readiness for combat. Moscow-backed separatists in the east of Ukraine — where two Britons and a Moroccan are to be executed — will introduce the death penalty from 2025, according to an updated criminal code of the self-proclaimed Donetsk People's Republic (DPR). The DPR has had the death penalty on its statute books since 2014, but there has been no legislation outlining how to enforce it until now. Rights group Amnesty International, which tracks the use of the death penalty worldwide, has not recorded any instances of official executions in the region. Last month, a DPR court sentenced two Britons — Aiden Aslin and Shaun Pinner — and a Moroccan — Brahim Saadoun — to death for "mercenary activities" after they were captured fighting for Ukraine. On Thursday, the European Court of Human Rights (ECHR) ordered Russia not to execute the two Britons captured after fighting for Ukraine. The death toll from Russian air strikes in Odesa has increased, while the number wounded would also appear to have gone up. Ukrainian emergency services initially said 17 people had been killed and 30 wounded in both attacks. Kyrylo Tymoshenko, a senior official at the Ukrainian presidency, later wrote on Telegram that the death toll had risen to 18, and among those who had perished were two children. The strikes that hit a multi-story apartment building and a hospital facility in and around Bilhorod-Dnistrovskyi were launched by aircraft that flew in from the Black Sea, according to Odesa military administration spokesman Serhiy Bratchuk. "The worst-case scenario played out and two strategic aircraft came to the Odesa region," he said, adding they had fired "very heavy and very powerful" missiles. The Ambassador of the European Union to Ukraine, Matti Maasikas, admitted he was "moved to tears" upon seeing the EU flag being brought in and erected in the the plenary hall of the Ukrainian parliament in Kyiv on Friday. The flag was introduced to the parliament at the end of a speech to lawmakers, via video link, from European Commission President Ursula von der Leyen. Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy cautioned that the flag should be "not just a beautiful symbol or gesture" but a reminder to "all branches of power" to implement the reforms without delay. In her speech, Von der Leyen stressed the need for further "reforms" on the "long road" toward EU membership. Indonesia's president concluded a trip to Kyiv and Moscow saying he hoped for progress reintegrating global food and fertilizer deliveries disrupted by Russia's invasion of Ukraine. President Joko Widodo was speaking at a press conference alongside his Russian counterpart Vladimir Putin. His visit to Moscow comes after meeting Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy on Wednesday. "I really appreciate President Putin who said earlier that he will provide security guarantee for food and fertilizer supplies from both Russia and Ukraine. This is good news," said the Indonesian president. "For the sake of humanity, I also support the United Nations' efforts to reintegrate Russian food and fertilizer commodities and Ukrainian food commodities to re-enter the world supply chain," he said. The Indonesian president said he had urged G7 leaders to ensure sanctions on Russia did not hinder food and fertilizer deliveries. European Commission chief Ursula von der Leyen said Friday that "massive investments" will be needed for the reconstruction of Ukraine, but the country's path to EU membership will go "hand in hand" with that process. "There is a long road ahead for Ukraine but Europe will be at your side every step of the way. From these dark days of war until the moment you cross the threshold that leads into our Union," she said in a virtual address to the Ukrainian parliament in Kyiv. Earlier this month, the EU granted Ukraine candidate status to join the bloc. Ukraine has "launched a significant export of electricity to the territory of the EU, via Romania," President Volodymyr Zelenskyy said, as Russia reduces gas deliveries to the bloc. The Ukrainian electricity grid was connected to the European network in mid-March, helping to keep supplies flowing despite the Russian invasion. European Commission President Ursula von der Leyen said that the Ukrainian exports "will provide an additional source of electricity for the EU. And much-needed revenues to Ukraine." Prime Minister Viktor Orban has reiterated Hungary's stance for the war in neighboring Ukraine to end as soon as possible, and that as a NATO ally, Budapest must stay out of the war. Orban said Hungary was not willing to negotiate about any potential EU embargo or limitations on Russian gas imports as that would hurt the country's economy. "It's not sanctions that would be needed but an immediate ceasefire and peace talks," he said, adding that peace was also needed to stem the flow of what he called "war inflation." Inflation in Hungary is currently running in double digits despite price caps on fuels, energy bills, and basic foodstuffs. The Czech Republic will take over the rotating presidency of the Council of the European Union on Friday, the second time it has done so since the country joined the EU in 2004. During its six-month chairmanship, the Czech Republic plans to focus on the war in Ukraine and its consequences. This includes coping with the influx of refugees and improving energy security. To mark the occasion, the President of the European Commission Ursula von der Leyen and the Czech Prime Minister Petr Fiala are meeting on Friday at Litomysl Castle, about 160 kilometers east of Prague. France held the rotating presidency for the first half of this year. A Russian missile struck a multi-story apartment building in Bilhorod-Dnistrovskyi in Odesa region early on Friday, killing at least 14 people and wounding 30, the emergency services said. Seven people were rescued from the rubble of the building, including three children, they said. Another Russian missile hit a hospitality facility near Bilhorod-Dnistrovskyi. In that case, three people were killed and one person injured, emergency services said. Serhiy Bratchuk, spokesman for the Odesa regional administration, said that the missiles had been fired by aircraft from the Black Sea. The Russian military said its had withdrawn its troops from Snake Island, an island belonging to Ukraine located in the Black Sea. Russia's Defense Ministry said it pulled out its forces from the island near the Black Sea port of Odesa as a "goodwill gesture." However, the commander of Kyiv's armed forces, Valeriy Zaluzhnyi, said that Ukrainian-made Bohdana howitzers had played a significant part in liberating Snake Island from Moscow forces and thanked foreign partners for their support. German Vice-Chancellor Robert Habeck said he suspected that Russia may not resume natural gas supplies to Europe through the Nord Stream 1 pipeline after planned maintenance work next month. While closing a NATO summit in Madrid, US President Joe Biden described the meeting as "historic," noting the last time the military alliance updated its strategic concept, in 2010, Russia was classified as a partner. Some 12 years on, the alliance described Russia as "the most significant and direct threat to Allies' security and to peace and stability in the Euro-Atlantic area." Biden also said the US would provide Ukraine with additional weapons aid to the value of $800 million (€768 million). Meanwhile, Russian Foreign Minister Sergey Lavrov said that a new "iron curtain" was descending between Russia and the West. German President Frank-Walter Steinmeier spoke on the phone with President Volodymyr Zelenskyy of Ukraine. Steinmeier congratulated the Ukrainian leader on his country's EU candidate status and expressed respect for Zelenskyy's "heroic fight against the Russian aggressor." Click here to catch up on Thursday's developments on Russia's war in Ukraine dh/msh (AP, AFP, dpa, Reuters)