Sri Lankan authorities deployed armored vehicles and troops on the streets of capital Colombo on Wednesday, after pro-government mobs attacked anti-government protesters, triggering a wave of violence across the country. Eight people have died since Monday, as the country sees mass protests spurred by a dire economic crisis. The curfew, which was supposed to be lifted on Wednesday, has been extended further. More than 200 have been injured, the defense ministry said. In addition, 104 buildings and 60 vehicles were burned. Security forces have been ordered to go on the offensive and use live ammunition to stop rioting, a top official told AFP news agency. Thousands of security forces were given orders to "shoot on sight." Sri Lankan President Gotabaya Rajapaksa called upon the people to "reject the subversive attempts to push you towards racial & religious disharmony," in a tweet on Wednesday morning. It was unclear what prompted the President to issue the warning. People blame the Rajapaksa dynasty for Sri Lanka's economic crisis, as the country has only about $50 million in reserves. This has led to massive shortages of fuel, cooking gas, and other essentials. Sri Lanka has sought urgent loans from the International Monetary Fund (IMF) after receiving financial and other support from India and China. The IMF said on Tuesday it was concerned about the violence, and that virtual technical talks with Sri Lankan officials that started on Monday would continue "so as to be fully prepared for policy discussions once a new government has been formed." There have been demonstrations in favor of the ruling dynasty as well, leading to both sides clashing with each other. The president's brother, Mahinda Rajapaksa, resigned as Prime Minister on Monday. He had to be escorted out of the official residence on Tuesday, as violent protesters tried to enter the premises. There have been calls for Gotabaya to step down as well. A 26-year civil war in the island nation ended in 2009 after security forces overcame militants from the minority Tamil community. Sinhalese Buddhists are the majority in the country of 22 million which also has Muslim, Hindu and Christian minorities. tg/rt (AFP, AP, Reuters)