"It is a very, very difficult situation but for my friend," according to Chizzy, a 23 year-old Nigerian who not not long ago was studying economics in the Ukrainian city of Kharkiv. He spoke to DW on May 18 — very frustrated and not wanting us to use his real name for saftey reasons. Chizzy's new friend is a German woman he met on the streets of Berlin when he was homeless after fleeing Ukraine following Russia's bombing of his university in March. She took him in to help him. "She's a mother to me; she cares about me and harbors me. I don't know how to thank her enough," he told DW a week later, this time with a face full of smiles. A skeletal Grim Reaper holds a baby that looks like Russian President Vladimir Putin tightly in his arms, feeding him with a bottle. For the Italian Paolo Lombardi, the war has found the ideal foster child in the Russian president. Flies encircle the figures, in further symbology that death is near. With the Grim Reaper at the wheel, the devil is in the passenger seat studying a road map. An unbeatable team, they navigate a Putin "vehicle" with flaming eyes — directly to World War III. This is how Dutchman Tjeerd Royaards interprets the current situation. Can the navigation system still be reprogrammed? One would think that humankind would have grown toward peaceful coexistence over the millennia. But in the view of Uzbek artist Makhmud Eshonkulov, mainly the complexity of weaponry has evolved. He depicts a monkey eventually followed by a Neanderthal with a club, then ultimately a modern soldier with high-tech precision guns. The latter steps on the tail of the monkey, going full circle. But wars are no longer fought only with conventional weapons; propaganda on all fronts is part of modern warfare. In his work entitled "Modern Weapons," Cuban illustrator Miguel Morales depicts social media such as Twitter, Facebook and Instagram as the buttons in a nuclear suitcase. The password is "fake.news." Like Ukraine, Lithuania once belonged to the powerful Soviet Union until it declared independence in 1990. In the former "brother states," people know what makes Russia tick. Cartoonist Kazys Kestutis Siaulytis from Lithuania depicts a fish skeleton in the color of the Russian flag eating a flag of Ukraine, indicating fears that Putin's hunger is spreading to consuming other countries. Afghans know from painful experience in their country what war really means. In his caricature, Shahid Atiqullah borrows from Norwegian artist Edvard Munch, who in 1893 created the iconic painting "The Scream." Here, the horrified face is to be understood as a commentary on the bombed cities of Ukraine. At first glance, this caricature by Romanian Marian Avramescu evokes associations with famous Dutch artist M.C. Escher. He drew objects that contradict logic and challenge perspective. Ukraine seemed to have no prospects in the face of Russian military superiority, although it has taught the world otherwise. Since Russia's army invaded Ukraine, people around the world have been protesting the brutal war of aggression. But they are doing so in vain, implies Turkish artist Menekse Cam with his illustration. Neither despots nor death are impressed by peace activists, his work says — here, the Grim Reaper plays golf with his scythe as the masses protest behind a fence. For a long time, Ukraine had close ties to Russia. The country's independence didn't fit into Putin's view. Cartoonist Amer from the United Arab Emirates depicts Ukraine as a little girl covetously looking back toward NATO, while Russia pulls her in the other direction. From Tanzanian artist Popa's point of view, this war is not just about Ukraine, but rather global power struggles — with high stakes. Russia is threatening the Western world with nuclear war if it continues to interfere, but the US could immediately retaliate. Around the globe, there is fear that the conflict might actually set off World War III. In the diplomatic arena, politicians from Western countries keep trying to bring the Russian president to the negotiating table. Putin's long table, at which he keeps his international visitors at a distance, has been extensively commented upon. From the point of view of the German cartoonist Agostino Tale, the only thing that counts for self-absorbed Putin is his own reflection. In his negotiations with the West, the Russian president has an important card to play: Many European countries are dependent on Russian gas and oil. "Dr. Octoputin," as Rodrigo from Macao/China sees him, has the upper hand. Despite sanctions, Germany and other countries still buy fossil energy from Russia, which helps to finance Putin's war chest. Ukrainians are fleeing the war in droves, and Europe is welcoming them with open arms. Despite sympathy for the refugees, Filipino artist Zach implies double standards are being applied — and that perhaps Ukrainian refugees are being allowed to enter the EU easier due to their lighter skin. Australia has for years seen a threat in China, which seeks supremacy in the South Pacific and has repeatedly signaled that it wants to annex Taiwan. According to cartoonist Broelman, the panda is watching closely to see if the Russian bear with his paw in the Ukrainian honeypot will be chased away by defending bees. The panda may take a cue from the results. Author: Suzanne Cords No fewer than 80,000 students who are enrolled in Ukrainian universities are from the Global South and many of those are from African countries. They had a life in Ukraine until February 24 when Russia invaded and hundreds of thousands of people — Ukrainians and foreigners — fled to other countries for safety. Though everyone who fled the war suffered equally, unequal treatments were doled out at border crossings. Some said that Ukrainian border guards prioritized Ukrainians and sent others, such as people from African countries, to the back of the queues, some of which stretched for kilometers. Others reported discrimination in the countries to which they fled. One of these countries is Germany. Millions of refugees fleeing military action in Ukraine have headed towards EU member states such as Germany Life in Ukraine was okay for Chizzy before the war. He lived in university accommodations and had integrated well — until the early hours of February 24 when he and his fellow students were woken by the unmistakable sound of bombs exploding. "Before we could come down from our rooms, we discovered many people had left and others were finding a way to enter bunkers to be safe," Chizzy remembered. "That's how we joined them and thought that in a week's time, everything will calm down." But nothing changed for the better. Rather, Chizzy recalled a chilling incident that happened when he went to collect a document from his university authority. "In my school, I witnessed a live bomb explosion," he told DW. "When the bomb exploded, the school management took some of us that were at the office to the underground bunkers for us to be safe. After that day, I left Ukraine. I needed to find my way before this people will block the entrance I'm supposed to follow to leave." University students, including thousands from Nigeria, have fled Ukraine since Russia launched its invasion Chizzy spent five very difficult days fleeing Ukraine, traveling through Slovakia and to Germany. Border authorities made it difficult for foreigners to leave the country. "Because of the way we struggled and told them we can't stay; nobody knows what will happen because it's not only government apartment that Russians are attacking, they are also attacking private buildings, nobody knows the next it may be," Chizzy explained. "So, after some consideration, they now allowed us to pass." The only way a traveler can cross the Slovakia border seamlessly and reasonably stress-free is on board a nonstop train. But the Ukrainians on the train noticed that Chizzy and other students — fleeing the war just like them — were not Ukrainians. When the train arrived at the Slovakian border, Chizzy and the non-Ukrainian students were told that it was the final destination and the train was not going any further. "When we came down, they continued the journey which is the easiest way to pass the border without any disturbance. If you come down, you will spend some days before the immigration can listen to you before you can pass," he told DW. Memories of a peaceful time — the city of Bakhmut was never set up to handle long hospital lines. But now, wounded from the front are being brought here for treatment, another sign of the bitter reality of Russia's brutal invasion. In this photo, medics from the First Volunteer Mobile Hospital Pirogov transport a Ukrainian soldier, wounded on the front lines at Popasna, to Bakhmut. Although doctors said he will live, he may remain paralyzed as a result of fragment wounds to the spine. Ukrainian medic Bohdan Marchuk is just 23 years old. Waiting in his ambulance for a call to the front, he, too, is a member of the Volunteer Mobile Hospital Pirogov. Many secondhand ambulances in the region come from Germany and Poland and are now being used behind the front lines in Ukraine's eastern Donetsk region. Wounded volunteer soldiers Maksim (center) and Andrei (right) wait on a bench at Bakhmut's hospital. The hospital's main task is to "stabilize" patients until they are well enough to be transported away from the front, to hospitals in western Ukraine. Alessandro, another Ukrainian soldier, attempts to reach his grandson who was able to flee to Poland. "My family is safe there, while we deal with this," he said, as he patiently waits for network coverage. Aleksandra Pohranychna, 20, is the only trained medic in her unit. She waits to be taken to the front line or for wounded soldiers to be brought to her location for treatment. "I decided to get involved and help," she said. She said her father, who remains in her hometown of Lviv in western Ukraine, gave her money to buy protective gear before she set off for the front. Pohranychna recently had Ukraine's coat of arms and a line from the Ukrainian poet Lesya Ukrainka tattooed onto her forearm. The line reads: "I have something in my heart that will never die." A medic carries a stretcher past an ambulance transporting the corpse of a dead Ukrainian soldier. For many wounded, help simply arrives too late. More than 80 days of war have not only taken their toll on Ukrainians; thousands of Russians have also been killed in the conflict and there seems to be no end in sight. Author: Claudia Dehn Chizzy and many others students stayed at the Slovakian train station for three days eating only biscuits and water because they had no money to buy food. "We discuss for so long; before we know it, it would be another day. If you are tired, you sleep on top of your bag," he told DW. No one had taken a shower or bath during the three days spent at the train station. The Slovakian immigration authorities then allowed them to begin an 8-hour journey to Hungary where they spent another night at a train station before leaving for Germany the next day. Africans fleeing Ukraine have spent hours standing in crowded trains on stressful journeys to safety "I don't have anybody here in Germany or any family members. I just came to Germany so that the German government will help me to be safe and for me to continue my education here," Chizzy told DW. But the reality was the opposite of that he had expected. He and others who fled Ukraine reported to a Berlin reception center for people seeking protection. They were kept in a hall for a month. Only Ukrainians were selected for onward sorting and integration. "We stayed like a month in that camp. No communication, nothing. No further registration. So, some of us started complaining that we don't know our fate here; nobody to attend to us, just that we were being given food to eat. Once it's time to eat, you go and take your food. But other process, nobody was attending to us," Chizzy said. Many Africans who fled Ukraine now live in refugee camps across various European cities After a month, an announcement was made strictly for Ukrainians: They were placed in a bus and transferred to other cities. Chizzy and other non-Ukrainians were later moved to Munich where he spent a month doing nothing. "After some weeks after registering in the community, they brought us a letter that we should go back to our countries that we are not Ukrainians," he said. "We contacted the German family we were living with, so they went through the letter and said it is not proper; that it is a threat letter, that we shouldn't panic about the letter." But more such letters arrived. "They brought us another letter that [there would be] no more social benefits [because] we are not Ukrainians," Chizzy told DW, sounding really upset. "The people I was staying with were tired of it — they got angry that the government is very stressful and it's very tough for them. So, they advised me that if I can go to other states that their government is different. That is why I left Munich to Berlin." Chizzy told DW there were never any benefits because the people who assisted him in Munich were a German family who provided him with a room and fed him. Groups of refugees, along with representatives from Berlin's refugee council and other NGOs held a protest on May 17 in the German capital in front of the Bundesrat, demanding equal rights for third-country nationals fleeing Ukraine, as well as other refugees. The refugee council's website states that fleeing Ukrainians receive quick and unbureaucratic access to residence permits, work permits and social benefits in Germany. But many third-country nationals without Ukrainian citizenship — who may have lived for years in Ukraine — are excluded from the right to temporary protection as war displaced persons. The protesters said they want equal treatment for everybody fleeing Ukraine, including those who do not hold Ukrainian citizenship. Many students fleeing Ukraine spent days eating only biscuits and water and sleeping on their bags "This protest was to raise again awareness for these issues. In this particular struggle, you can see again the discrimination and different treatments of different refugees depending on passport," Julianne Gebel, co-founder of NGO Internationals from Ukraine and Friends, told DW. "This war has shown that the treatment of refugees can be different and be better than what they have faced in the recent years in Germany," Gebel continued. "Easy access to work, to schooling, to housing, universities and all of that is certainly possible for Ukrainian citizens and this is the kind of treatment that refugees should always receive but unfortunately, not all of them are," Gebel said "So, we were demanding that these treatments [are] expanded to other refugees from other backgrounds, other countries as well." Tobore Ovuorie — a multiple award-winning investigative journalist and storyteller — is the 2021 Deutsche Welle Freedom of Speech Award recipient. Edited by Keith Walker