The weather wasn't predictable during the opening ceremony of the Eurovision Song Contest Sunday evening, which was repeatedly interrupted by rain showers. Artists and their team nevertheless walked the turquoise carpet, past journalists, bloggers and fans, with the former royal palace in Venaria Reale near Turin as a backdrop. With or without an umbrella, they showed off their extravagant outfits. Australian Sheldon Riley floated along with an oversized flokati cape; Ronela Hajati from Albania wore a brightly colored folkloric costume with a cube-shaped hat that protected her well from the rain. Australia's Sheldon Riley on the Eurovision Song Contest's blue carpet Spain's Chanel came in a red mini-dress in combination with a gigantic red-plush stola. Malik, the German participant, was dressed rather simply in a black shirt and a dark red suit in matt satin. Ukrainians posed on the carpet with serious faces: The Kalush Orchestra, currently the competition's top favorite, wore suits reminiscent of the clothes of the Ukrainian President Zelenskyy, and carried the blue-and-yellow flag of their home country. The leading favorites: Kalush Orchestra from Ukraine The opening ceremony was a rehearsal-free day for the participants in Turin, allowing them to take a breather before tackling the 10th day of rehearsals on Monday in the Pala Olimpico. That is where the first semi-final will take place on Tuesday evening. The show was first held for the juries on Monday evening. Their votes are then to be combined with those of the audience on Tuesday, based on the live performances of the semi-finalists. Organizers faced technical issues in the last few days, reporting that the central-stage element known as the "kinetic sun" was not functioning during the first rehearsals. Since some of the acts had integrated the stage design into their choreography, new concepts had to be found as quickly as possible — a cause of distress. With over 12 million followers on TikTok, Sam Ryder is the UK's ticket Ukraine has been participating in the European Song Contest since 2003. Since then, they have made it 10 times into the top 10, and won twice — most recently in 2016 in Stockholm. The following year, the event took place in Kyiv. The colorful and cheerful event offered distraction from the conflict in eastern Ukraine, which started following Russia's annexation of Crimea in 2014. At this year's Eurovision, Ukraine's entry, the Kalush Orchestra, is the leading favorite. Even though the competition claims it is not a political event, it somehow ends up being one each year. Given the war and global solidarity with Ukraine, it is not surprising that the Ukrainians are met with sympathy from all over Europe. And the song of this colorful group is really strong. "Stefania" is a mixture of folkloric singing and rap with a very danceable groove. The so-called "Big Five" are the countries that largely finance the Eurovision Song Contest. Germany, the UK, France, Italy and Spain are seeded for the final and do not have to qualify in the semi-finals. However, those countries are often not represented in the top 10.  the UK, Germany and Spain have landed some of the worst rankings in the past few years. However, this year, three of the Big Five have a good chance of placing in the top five. "Chanel," from Spain, for instance, turns up the heat with her performance of the song "SloMo," a firework of pole dance and Latino rhythms that has good chances of getting many televote points. Sam Ryder is already a big TikTok star in the UK. With his song, he surprised the Eurovision community from the start. With "Space Man," an homage to iconic singers like Freddie Mercury or Elton John, he offers a really strong British song for the first time in a while — and is currently tipped by bookmakers as competing with Italy for second place. Italy comes with a duet: "Brividi," sung by Mahmood and Blanco, is a power ballad — a same-sex love song about the end of a relationship and the inability to talk about one's feelings. Mahmood has already braved the Eurovision fans in Tel Aviv in 2019, where he finished second, just behind Dutchman Duncan Lawrence. Now, the act might allow Italy to retain its title after rock band Maneskin's win last year, which brought the Eurovision Song Contest to Turin. Germany is sending 24-year-old German-American Malik Harris into the race. His stage design is reminiscent of a cozy living room; he sings his song "Rockstars" surrounded by his instruments. The rap sequence in his act is particularly compelling. Based on rehearsals, many observers say he at least won't come in last. Eurovision Song Contest 2022 contestant Malik Harris gives his best Harris said at a press conference last Saturday that he was in a good mood and that he doesn't see the event as a competition at all, but more like a school trip. On Tuesday, the first 10 finalists will be determined in the first semi-final. The second semi-final takes place on Thursday. The big show on Saturday evening will start at 9:00 p.m. — and then, around 180 million viewers around the world will be sitting in front of the television to experience the world's biggest music annual contest live. It is ABBA's biggest hit ever. "Dancing Queen" was the second track on their fourth album "Arrival" from 1976. The Swedish band picked up the disco sound that was trending in the US and gave it a Europop twist. "We knew immediately it was going to be massive," member Agnetha Faltskog said. It became a classic that still brings joy to any dance floor. The winning entry for the 1974 Eurovision Song Contest, this is the song that led to ABBA's worldwide fame. Written specifically for the contest, it was selected as the best song from the competition's history for its 50th anniversary in 2005. Referencing Napoleon's surrender at the Battle of Waterloo, it tells the story of a woman who "surrenders" to the man she loves. Released in 1975, this was ABBA's first major worldwide hit after "Waterloo." The Who's Pete Townshend called it "one of the best pop songs ever written." John Frusciante, Peter Cetera, Chris deBurgh as well as Portishead are among the musicians who later covered the catchy hit. ABBA's attitude and outrageous costumes had something uniquely naive that rejoices fans of kitsch to this day. These kimonos were famously worn in the video for "Money, Money, Money." By the time this single from the album "Arrival" was released in 1976 after "Dancing Queen," ABBA was definitely very rich. That didn't matter, as everyone agreed, it "must be funny, in the rich man's world." Released in 1976, this single became one of the best-selling tracks of all time. The song tells the story of two veteran freedom fighters from the war between Texas and Mexico meeting again: "There's no regret, If I had to do the same again, I would, my friend, Fernando..." Bjorn Ulvaeus once said he liked to write "little stories" with his songs. "Breaking up is never easy..." This 1977 song is one their first to deal with the break-up of a relationship, years before it would become their own reality. ABBA was composed of two married couples: Agnetha Faltskog was with Bjorn Ulvaeus and Anni-Frid Lyngstad with Benny Andersson. Both of their marriages collapsed at the height of their popularity. Reflecting the end of a romance, this 1980 track has an aura of sadness that appeared as difficulties in the members' relationships arose. Bjorn Ulvaeus and Agnetha Fältskog announced they were divorcing in 1979, Anni-Frid Lyngstad and Benny Andersson in 1981. However, the band kept touring together. Ulvaeus, who wrote the lyrics, has often claimed the song was not based on his own experience. This 1975 chart-topper became the title of a musical based on ABBA's songs and musical romantic comedy starring Meryl Streep. "Mamma mia" is Italian which literally translates as "My mommy," but is used to express surprise or excitement. The title of this 1979 song also borrows from another language, as "chiquitita" is a Spanish term of endearment for a woman meaning "little one." In contrast to ABBA's disco hits, this track opens with a lullaby feel; its chorus is powerful ear candy, "Chiquitita, you and I know..." The video shows the band members singing with a huge snowman. This time with a title from French, "Voulez-Vous," means "do you want" and is a disco track that appeared on the 1979 album of the same name as well as on many compilation albums. ABBA never officially announced that it had dissolved, but the band stopped being active as a group in 1982. Now they've announced they would be releasing their first new material in 35 years. Author: Elizabeth Grenier (ct) This article was originally written in German.