This article was last updated at 09:05 UTC/GMT The German military has conducted another air evacuation of war-wounded Ukrainians from Poland to Germany for medical treatment. A special A310 MedEvac aircraft took off from Cologne, Germany, on Thursday, the German air force announced on Twitter. So far, the air force has flown out 111 patients via this route aboard the specially-equipped plane that allows them to be treated in the air by medical personnel. This time, the air force said, the patients were to be flown to Hamburg. The International Committee of the Red Cross (ICRC) says it has registered hundreds of prisoners of war (POWs) from the Azovstal steel plant in Mariupol. The besieged metalworks were the last bastion of resistance in the port city, and Russia says some 1,730 fighters have surrendered since Monday. The ICRC says it started registering Ukrainian POWs, which included wounded fighters, on Tuesday under an agreement between Russia and Ukraine. As part of the process, the ICRC records information from the individuals to keep track of those who have been captured. The organization said it was not transporting the POWs to the places where they are being held. The Russians have taken at least some of the captured soldiers to a former penal colony in territory controlled by Moscow-backed separatists. Russia said on Thursday that 771 fighters holed up at the steelworks had surrendered to its forces in the past 24 hours. Kyiv says it has ordered the soldiers of the Mariupol garrison to stand down. German Chancellor Olaf Scholz has delivered a statement to the German parliament ahead of a special EU summit on the war in Ukraine. Scholz has faced criticism over his approach to the conflict, derided by critics as weak. Scholz called the war in Ukraine the greatest crisis facing the EU in its history and a "turning point in history." But said that European solidarity was the counterweight to autocracy in Russian leader Vladimir Putin's Russia. "The greater the pressure from the outside, the more we join forces as the European Union and act together." In his address, Scholz said Putin would only be prepared to discuss peace when he realized that Russia could not break Ukraine's defenses. "Peace is only something we can take for granted if we are prepared to defend it. This is the lesson that we have learned from the brutal Russian attack on Ukraine." The extraordinary EU summit on May 30 and 31 is expected to focus on the war in Ukraine and its consequences. Possible topics for heads of state and government who are to meet in Brussels are a planned oil embargo against Russia and the EU Commission's longer-term plan to wean the bloc off Russian fossil fuels. They could also discuss the prospect of Ukraine joining the EU, although a decision on the country's candidate status is to be made in June at the earliest. Ukraine's General Staff says Russia's attacks targeting new territory in the Donbas have been without major success and that, in some cases, Russian fighters have suffered setbacks. In a report on Thursday, Ukrainian officials said Moscow-backed forces had "suffered significant losses" around the settlement of Velyka Komyshuvakha, in the north of the Donetsk region. The General Staff also said that despite heavy fighting in the Luhansk region — including ground offensives supported by Russian aircraft — Moscow had failed to gain much ground. Late on Wednesday, the Ukrainian army announced that it had made further territorial gains in the Kharkiv region. It said Ukrainian forces had regained control of the village of Dementievka, near the Russian border, in an advance to the north of Kharkiv, which is Ukraine's second city. Finance ministers from G7 nations are gathering in Königswinter in western Germany to coordinate a response to assist Ukraine. US Treasury Secretary Janet Yellen has asked other G7 nations to "join us in increasing their financial support." German Finance Minister Christian Lindner told German newspaper Die Welt before the meeting that the G7 had to "assure Ukraine's solvency within the next days, few weeks." Japanese Prime Minister Fumio Kishida told reporters in Tokyo that Japan planned to double its fiscal support for Ukraine to $600 million (€572 million). Bridget Brink was confirmed by the US Senate to be the ambassador to Ukraine late Wednesday. The post has been vacant for three years. Career diplomat Brink was previously the US envoy to Slovakia and previously had roles including as an expert in Eastern Europe and the Caucasus for the State Department in Washington. She was also deputy ambassador in Uzbekistan and Georgia. The vote to confirm Brink was unanimous. The US State Department had previously announced it was reopening its Kyiv embassy, which had been closed due to Russia's invasion. US diplomats were relocated to Poland and some were temporarily in Lviv in western Ukraine. Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy sought to prepare the Ukrainian public for a long war in their country during his nightly video address late Wednesday. He told the Ukrainian people, "Kherson, Melitopol, Berdyansk, Enerhodar, Mariupol and all our cities and towns that are under occupation, under temporary occupation, should know that Ukraine will return.” He said, however, that battlefield conditions would determine how long it takes for the territory to be back under Ukrainian control. "We are trying to do it as soon as possible. We are committed to driving out the occupiers and guaranteeing Ukraine real security,” Zelenskyy said from Kyiv. Ukraine extended martial law and the mass mobilization by 90 days until August 23. Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy said Russia fired more than 2,000 missiles at his country since February 24 when Russia invaded Ukraine. During his nightly video address, Zelenskyy said most of the missiles had hit civilian infrastructure without bringing about any strategic advantage. Russian missiles struck the southern cities of Mikolaiv and Dnipro in the last day, Zelenskyy said. The Russian Foreign Ministry said it is expelling scores of diplomats from several European countries in a retaliatory move to their expulsions of Russian diplomatic personnel. Those expelled include 34 French, 27 Spanish and 24 Italian diplomats. Russia also withdrew the visas and press credentials of Canada's CBC and Radio Canada journalists and is shutting the organization's Moscow bureau. Germany will donate 15 tanks to the Czech armed forces as part of a program under which Berlin aimed to help countries pass their stocks of Soviet weaponry to Ukraine. The Czechs have given Ukraine Soviet-era heavy weapons worth at least $130 million (€124 million) and are in talks with Germany about purchasing up to 50 more new Leopard A7+ tanks. European Commission President Ursula von der Leyen has proposed extra aid to Ukraine this year of up to nine billion euros ($9.5 billion). She said the fund would help the country cope with the ravages of war. The EU also intends to mobilize up to €300 billion of investment by 2030 to end the bloc's reliance on Russian oil and gas. The investments will include €10 billion for gas infrastructure, €2 billion for oil, and the rest for clean energy, von der Leyen told reporters. US Treasury Secretary Janet Yellen said sanctions against Russia had an enormous impact, but Russia said its economy was showing resilience. Russia Economy Minister Maxim Reshetnikov, though, was confident that inflation in Russia would slow down further, adding that Russia had withstood the first hit from sanctions. The US also set up a new monitoring body to build legal cases against Russia for crimes committed during its war against Ukraine and reopened its embassy in Ukraine's capital, Kyiv. In February, the embassy was closed, and diplomatic personnel "temporarily relocated" to Lviv in western Ukraine. Many western countries, including Germany, France and the United Kingdom have reopened their embassies in Kyiv over the past month, after Russian troops pulled back from the city to focus on an offensive in the east of the country. As a result of unease due to Russia's war in Ukraine, Finland and Sweden submitted applications to join NATO, though Turkey moved to block the start of their NATO accession talks while making a series of military and political demands. US President Joe Biden said he expects Finland and Sweden will join NATO. Russian Foreign Minister Sergey Lavrov said the bid of the two Nordic nations to join the alliance would make "probably not much difference.” United Nations Secretary-General Antonio Guterres said he was in "intense contact" with Russia, Ukraine, Turkey, the United States and the European Union to try and restore Ukrainian grain shipments and revive Russian fertilizer exports. Catch up on all Wednesday's events surrounding the war in Ukraine. ar/sms (AFP, AP, dpa, Reuters) 