Andy Fletcher, keyboardist and a founding member of the multi-platinum British electronic music pioneers Depeche Mode, has died aged 60, the band has announced. "We are shocked and filled with overwhelming sadness with the untimely passing of our dear friend, family member, and bandmate Andy 'Fletch' Fletcher," the band wrote on Twitter late Thursday. "Fletch had a true heart of gold and was always there when you needed support, a lively conversation, a good laugh, or a cold pint." A person close to the band, speaking anonymously, told the Associated Press that Fletcher had died of natural causes at his home in the UK. Born in 1961 in Nottingham, England, Fletcher went on to help form the band that would become the giants of British electro-pop along with fellow synthesizer players Vince Clarke and Martin Gore, and lead singer Dave Gahan. Depeche Mode's debut 1981 album "Speak & Spell" put them at the center of the British new wave scene, which spawned the hits "New Life" and "Just Can't Get Enough." The band went on to sell more than 100 million albums, winning over a global audience with bestselling singles  like "Personal Jesus," "People Are People" or "Enjoy The Silence." The band's last studio album "Spirit" came out in 2017. In the late 80s and early 90s, the British synthpop band offered the world a number of notable hits. Their sound has inspired musicians of all styles ever since. Here are 10 direct tributes to the influential band - some more memorable than others. The first single on Depeche Mode's best known album, "Violator," was "Personal Jesus." The hit acquired new fame in the 2004 version covered by shock rocker Marilyn Manson. The cover sticks to the original tempo of the song, adding grungy guitar riffs and heavy drums. In a completely different style, Johnny Cash recorded his own bluesy interpretation of "Personal Jesus" on the 2002 album "American IV." Depeche Mode's hit song was re-worked into an acoustic version by Red Hot Chili Peppers guitarist John Frusciante for Johnny Cash. Notorious for provocative performances, rebelling against the East German regime and indulging in drugs, the German "Godmother of Punk" found her own personal Jesus late in life: Nina Hagen was baptized in 2009. She spread her newfound love for God in her music, releasing her album "Personal Jesus" in 2010 - which of course included the famous Depeche Mode song. The American pianist and singer Tori Amos also regularly included a cover of "Personal Jesus" during her "Summer of Sin" tour in 2005, adding a lot of piano notes to the original. She also recorded another of Depeche Mode's "Violator" hits, "Enjoy the Silence," on "Strange Little Girls" - each track of this concept album was a cover of a song originally performed by men. The Scottish singer who grabbed the world's attention as a contestant on "Britain's Got Talent" in 2009 also covered "Enjoy the Silence" on her 2011 album "Someone to Watch Over Me." Boyle's sugarcoated sentimental version of the song is stripped of all traces of the goth dance beats that made the original a hit. The fourth and final single for the album "Violator" was "World in My Eyes." The Cure, another pioneering band known for its dark, tormented music, chose this song as their contribution to the Depeche Mode tribute album "For the Masses," released in 1998. Depeche Mode's single "Stripped," from the 1986 album "Black Celebration," featured innovative samples. In their own Neue Deutsche Härte style, the German provocative rockers Rammstein served up an interesting cover version. The video controversially included images from Leni Riefenstahl's Nazi propaganda film "Olympia" - but the band distanced itself from the filmmaker's politics. The Depeche Mode song "I Feel You" was a track from their 1993 album "Songs of Faith and Devotion." More rock-oriented than previous songs, it was the band's highest-charting hit worldwide. The English alternative rock band Placebo covered it, initially releasing it for members of their fan club only and, in 2003, including it on "Sleeping with Ghosts." German electronic music group Tangerine Dream covered Depeche Mode's single "Precious" from the album "Playing the Angel" (2005). The krautrock collective may have developed pioneering sounds in the mid-1970s, but their cover of this song didn't add much to the original. The single "Never Let Me Down Again" was a particularly strong hit in West Germany in 1987 and remains a favorite among fans. The Smashing Pumpkin's melancholy rendition of the hopeful song perfectly captures the spirit of teenage turmoil. Depeche Mode's singer Dave Gahan even said he thought it was "a lot better" than the original. Author: Elizabeth Grenier A fan of the English soccer team Chelsea FC with a penchant for chess, Fletcher kept a low profile and did not sing or write songs. His face was never as familiar as those of his bandmates. Along with other Depeche Mode members, Fletcher was inducted into the Rock and Roll Hall of Fame in 2020. He remained with the group until his death, though he missed part of their 1994 tour due to a reported mental health struggles. Fletcher even started his own record label, Toast Hawaii, in 2002, releasing an album by the band CLIENT and would perform DJ sets at the new band's live shows. Fletcher leaves behind a wife and two children and his death means Gahan and Gore are now the only permanent members of Depeche Mode. Fletcher's music peers paid him tribute as word of his death spread, including the Pet Shop Boys who wrote on Twitter that he was "a warm, friendly and funny person who loved electronic music." Orchestral Maneuvers in the Dark tweeted that he was a "beautiful person in an amazing band." Singer Alison Moyet, who was childhood friends with Fletcher and went on to form Yazoo (known as Yaz in the United States), with ex-Depeche Mode member Vince Clarke, wrote: "Since we were 10. Same estate. Class mates to label mates. He who kept faith with all the old gang and they with him. It doesn't compute. Fletch. I have no words." Carol Decker, lead singer for the band T'Pau, tweeted: "Oh no!!! Fletch was a lovely guy DM one of my all-time favourite bands sending all my love to his family friends and band members." Lol Tolhurst, drummer for The Cure, said Fletcher's death was "very sad news." "I knew Andy and considered him a friend. We crossed many of the same pathways as younger men. My heart goes out to his family," he wrote on Twitter. mm/rs (AFP, AP, Reuters)