Hassan Sheikh Mohamud is the first Somali president to win a second term. After his first presidency from 2012 to 2017, he now got elected once again. A member of the powerful Hawiye clan, Mohamud entered politics in 2011 when he founded the Union for Peace and Development Party. His 2012 election victory raised hopes of stability for a country beset by an Islamist insurgency. Mohamud's government at the time was the first to be given global recognition and billions in foreign aid since the collapse of Siad Barre's authoritarian regime in 1991. Yet Somalis have not forgotten that Mohamud's first presidency was marked by corruption scandals and political turmoil. Political analyst Mohamed Mubarak is skeptical about whether things will be better this time round. "The incoming president used the state to enrich himself and his friends" during his first term, Mubarak told DW. No accountability mechanisms have been put in place since then, Mubarak added, "so there is no reason to expect them to act differently this time." Mohamud was replaced by Mohamed Abdullahi Mohamed, popularly known as Farmajo, in 2017. It was the start of a bitter rivalry between the two politicians. But at his swearing-in ceremony, Mohamud struck a conciliatory note, hailing his predecessor for enabling a peaceful transfer of power and promising to "heal any grievances." Somalis hope that having a legitimate government will bring back a measure of stabilty Mohamud also vowed to unite his country. "Our priority is to move the country forward together and we no longer want political grievances after elections," he said. "We want to solve all the outstanding issues through dialogue and in a peaceful manner," he added before going on to say that he will focus on political and social reconciliation. Samira Gaid, executive director of the Mogadishu-based Hiraal Institute, who described the new president as a "technocrat" with strong analytical skills, believes that Mohamud is a man willing to take advice from others. She said he did not have a "winner takes it all" mentality. Omar Mahmood, senior analyst for Somalia of the International Crisis Group (ICG), echoed that sentiment. "If we look back at Hassan Sheikh Mahmoud's previous tenure, he seemed more open to consultation and compromise than the recent administration," Mahmood told DW. "That's really the key step because progress on the other fronts is not going to happen unless you have political reconciliation." Violent protests broke out in February 2021, when Farmajo tried to extend his rule by decree after his term ended and no elections were held. The demonstrations plunged the country into further domestic strife and political factionalism. Now that a clear winner emerged on May 15 in the long-delayed polls, hopes are up for calmer times ahead. But reconciliation among Mogadishu's political elite will not be enough. "There is still an unsettled relationship between the federal government and the member states," expert Mahmood pointed out. "Certain states were very antagonistic against the previous government. Those allied to the former administration might find themselves on the other side of that fence." While the new president promised not to pursue retaliatory policies, it remained to be seen how he would act "when it comes down to the issues." The election results left many Somalis with mixed feelings. Mohamud Ibrahim, a resident of the capital, said he was somehow relieved to have a new government, after the impasse of the last year. "That doesn't mean that I'm happy about the new leadership. I was a staunch supporter of the outgoing president Farmajo," he told DW. Anab Abdi hopes that the election will benefit the country: "We need unity among our people to get security, peace and developments in our country." US troops are about to return to Somalia Achieving peace after decades of violence is one of the explicit aims of the president. "Somalia still faces a massive insurgency from the al-Shabab movement, which has exploited the electoral dynamics to really become a bit more emboldened," analyst Mahmood said. "This is something that's been going on for 15 years and has plagued multiple administrations." According to Mahmood, military efforts have failed. "We would propose that there needs to be at some point some dynamic around reconciliation with the group," he said, adding that it was hard to see how this may come about soon. On May 16, a day after the Somali election, US President Joe Biden ordered thereestablishment of a US troop presence in Somalia to help local authorities combat al-Shabab, reversing an order by his predecessor Donald Trump. Biden's decision was announced by a senior American official, who pointed out that it was not taken in connection with Mahmud's election. The drought has affected many millions in Somalia "I don't think the timing is coincidental at all," expert Mahmood said. Foreign partners in general had shown their displeasure at the delayed electoral cycle. "It seems like they were just waiting for this to conclude before moving back with some of their programs in Somalia," he added. Somalia's international partners welcomed the election of President Hassan Sheikh Mohamud. EU foreign policy chief Josep Borrell urged Mohamud to appoint a government quickly and to undertake "serious efforts of reconciliation" and much-needed security, economic and political reforms. The heavily indebted country was at risk of losing access to a three-year $400 million (€380 million) aid package from the International Monetary Fund (IMF), which was set to expire on May 17 if a new administration was not in place by then. Over 70% of the drought-stricken land's population live on less than $1.90 a day. Around 70% of Somalis live on less than $1.90 a day How far the international community, especially the West, will be willing to support the new administration, remains to be seen. A certain "fatigue" has set in, after so many years of unresolved crises, said Mahmood. "We have to be realistic about where Somalia is on the worldwide rankings and priorities," he explained. Nevertheless, the election closed a prolonged and divisive electoral cycle. Somalia now had a legitimate and functioning government, said the analyst, adding with cautious optimism that "the bar was kind of low, honestly, but that's positive in itself: to close a chapter and make a fresh start going forward." Mohamed Odawa contributed to this article Edited by Keith Walker The truck was loaded with explosives and detonated at a busy junction in the heart of Mogadishu in the afternoon of September 14, 2017. The explosion of the bomb killed at least 276 people and injured hundreds more. It was the worst terror attack in the history of Somalia. Nearly three decades of civil war and terror have also robbed the population of its resilience to drought. Xamdi is a child of Somali nomads and has been in the nutrition ward of Mogadishu's Banadir Hospital since the beginning of August. Her mother feeds her with the peanut-based 'Plumpy’Nut' paste to avoid severe acute malnutrition. Xamdi is three years old and only weighs seven kilograms. Most kids in Germany in the same age group weigh twice as much. About 800,000 Somalis are facing starvation. This boy recovers in the bed next to Xamdi. He is fighting pneumonia, one of the all too common infections caused by chronic malnutrition and overcrowded conditions in Mogadishu's refugee camps. His hands are wrapped in paper to prevent him from pulling out his feeding tube. Banadir Hospital is the biggest public clinic in the capital, but even here the collapse of the health system is visible. Mogadishu is full of makeshift homes. Many nomads and countryside dwellers are determined to stay. They have fled civil war, terror, violence and hunger. The city's population has swollen to nearly 2.5 million. At least 600,000 are officially regarded as 'internally displaced people'. The congested and unhygienic living conditions in the camps are a health hazard. Acute respiratory tract infections and diarrhea are common diseases among Mogadishu's internally displaced population. Life in the makeshift camps is a daily struggle for the next meal and the next bucket of water. There is not much to do inside the camps but to sit and wait. Many children don't have access to education. Most makeshift camps lack playgrounds or other recreational spaces. There is much hardship outside the camps, too. The old part of Mogadishu is particularly pockmarked by nearly three decades of internal conflict. But there are also signs of new beginnings. Early September 2017: These youngsters are having a good time in Mogadishu's Peace Park. All of them are students, all of them express faith in the new government of western-backed President Mohamed. One of them wants to become a civil aviation engineer. He says: "It is much safer here than five years ago." Five years ago al-Shabab ruled the capital. Today the extremists send suicide bombers. Right at the entrance to Peace Park, visitors are reminded to leave behind Kalashnikovs, knives, hand grenades and pistols. Liido beach draws huge crowds especially after Friday prayers. People meet to dance and play soccer. Soccer is hugely popular in Somalia. Young lovers meet to court each other. Mogadishu's Liido beach was deserted under al-Shabab's brief rule of the capital. The international community has started to invest in rebuilding Somalia's shattered state. Reconstruction is most visible in the capital. This new street was built with Turkish help. Turkey has also set up a huge military base in Mogadishu to train Somali soldiers. New villas spring up throughout town. Somalia's returning diaspora invests in Mogadishu's booming property market. So do politicians and other strongmen. Many of the new buildings are surrounded by high blast walls and concertina wire to fend off terrorists, criminals and rivals. The airport region has become the expats' hub. Like Baghdad and Kabul, Mogadishu has a green zone. The United Nations and most of the returning diplomatic missions live and work in the vast compound which has developed around Mogadishu's International Airport. It is fenced off and guarded by African Union troops. Most of Mogadishu's shopfronts sport hand-painted murals which add some much-needed color to a city slowly rising from its ruins. Modern billboards are also conquering the streets, advertising online shopping for Arab fashion or application details for private educational institutions. The city's new attractions are out of reach for the many displaced people and the poor. Somalia's progress and stability will depend on the state's ability to win the trust of its people. Right now nearly seven million people, which is about half the country's population, depend on humanitarian aid. More than half of Somalia's population is under 18. The majority of citizens were born after the overthrow of Mohamed Siad Barre in 1991 — the pivotal event that caused the country to become a failed state. The capital's youth, if not engaged meaningfully, often feel disenfranchised, adding to Somalia's continued vulnerability. Author: Sandra Petersmann