Somalia will elect its next president on May 15. The vote has been delayed by more than 15 months, with the intervening period marred by deadly violence and a power struggle between President Mohamed Abdullahi Mohamed — popularly known as Farmajo — and Prime Minister Mohamed Hussein Roble. Among the 39 presidential candidates are two former presidents and former Somali Prime Minister Hassan Ali Khaire. For centuries, Somali society has been organized on the basis of clans. Which clan people identify with affects many aspects of life, including politics. Despite this, there was hope that Sunday's election would be held under universal suffrage, as is common in many democratic countries. A strong lobby by clan elders and the political elite, however, saw Somalia subsequently abandon the idea. According to Somalia's electoral system, clan elders pick delegates, who then select the 275 members of the House of Representatives and 54 members of the Senate — a total of 329 lawmakers. Newly-elected members of the Senate and the House of Representatives were sworn in on April 14. On May 15, the 329 lawmakers will choose a new president in a secret ballot. The newly-elected president will then pick a prime minister. Finally, the PM will be tasked with forming a government by appointing a cabinet. "These will be the sixth indirect elections held in Somalia, with every new government promising to hold general elections in the country," Mohamed Mubarak, executive director of Marqaati, Somalia's first and only anti-corruption organization, told DW. Al-Shabab militants have stepped up attacks in Mogadishu to disrupt the elections Mubarak bemoaned what he described as a narrow goal set by international partners to fight terrorism and piracy. "Democratization and good governance have taken a back seat," Mubarak told DW. "The results are heavy securitization of the state and unchecked corruption by a small elite that actively works to deny universal suffrage." Fowsia Aden, who once served as the country's first foreign minister, is the only female presidential candidate. She told DW that she was the right person for the top job. "Our country needs lasting peace, justice for all, economic improvements and we have to make ensure that the right people — both women and men — are placed in the right positions," Aden said. "If I'm elected, my government would be constitutionally responsible, inclusive and respect human rights." Since 1999, the UN has been trying to pacify the eastern region of the DR Congo. The mission known as MONUSCO has nearly 20,000 soldiers and an annual budget of $1.4 billion (1.3 billion euros). Despite being the largest and most expensive mission of the United Nations, violence in the country continues. UNAMID is a joint mission of the African Union and the UN in Sudan's volatile Darfur region. Observers consider the mission a failure. "The UN Security Council should work harder at finding political solutions, rather than spending money for the military's long-term deployment," says security expert Thierry Vircoulon. Since the beginning of South Sudan's civil war in 2013, nearly 4 million people have been displaced according to the UN. Some of them are being sheltered in UN compounds. But when clashes between government forces and rebels broke out in the capital Juba in July 2016, the blue helmets failed to effectively intervene. Later, the Kenyan UNMISS commander was sacked by former UN chief Ban Ki-moon. UN peacekeepers in Mali are monitoring compliance with the peace agreement between the government and an alliance of Tuareg-led rebels. But Islamist terrorist groups such as AQIM continue to carry out attacks making MINUSMA one of the UN's most dangerous military intervention in the world. Germany has deployed more than 700 soldiers as well as helicopters. MINUSCA, the UN's mission in Central Africa Republic has not helped to improve the image of the United Nations in Africa. French troops have been accused of sexually abusing children by the Code Blue Campaign. Three years on, victims haven't got any help from the UN. Since 2014, 10,000 soldiers and 1,800 police officers have been deployed. Violence in the country has receded but tensions remain. The UN mission in the Westsahara known as MINURSO has been active since 1991. MINURSO is there to monitor the armistice between Morocco and the rebels of the "Frente Polisario" who are fighting for the independence of the Western Sahara. In 2016, Morocco which has occupied this territory since 1976, dismissed 84 MINURSO staff after being angered by a statement from the UN Secretary-General. The UN mission in Ivory Coast fulfilled its objectives on June 30, 2016 after 14 years. Since 2016, the troops have been gradually withdrawn. Former Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon said this was a "turning point for the United Nations and the Ivory Coast." But only after the full withdrawal will it be clearly known whether or not the mission was successful on a long-term basis. The UN deployment in Liberia is - as in neighboring Ivory Coast - will soon be history. The soldiers are leaving by mid-2017. Since the end of the 14-year civil war, UNMIL has ensured stability in Liberia and helped build a functioning state. Liberia's government now wants to provide security for itself. The country is still struggling with the consequences of a devastating Ebola epidemic. The UNISFA soldiers are patrolling the disputed oil-rich region of Abyei. Sudan and South Sudan both claim to be rightful owners of this territory located between the two countries. More than 4,000 blue helmets from Ethiopia are deployed. Ethiopia is the world's second largest peace-keeping contributor. At the same time, the Ethiopian army is accused of human rights violations back home. UN peacekeepers in Somalia are fighting under the leadership of the African Union in a mission known as AMISOM. The soldiers are in the Horn of African country to battle the al-Shabaab Islamists and bring stability to the war-torn nation. Ethiopia, Burundi, Djibouti, Kenya and Uganda, Sierra Leone, Ghana and Nigeria have all contributed their troops for AMISOM. Author: Martina Schwikowski Ayanle Abdirahman, a civil society activist in Mogadishu, said he is disappointed by the clan politics in Somalia. "This indirect selection is not a turning point for Somalia, because only 329 handpicked members of parliament decide about the future for the ordinary people in this country," Abdirahman said, emphasizing that Somalis expect the next president to move the country forward. "Let people choose their future leaders democratically, or through a 'one man, one vote' election." Somalia has not had a strong functioning government since Somalia's National Movement and other armed militia groups ousted dictator Siad Barre in 1991. In addition, the Islamist group al-Shabab is fighting to overthrow the fragile Western-backed government in Mogadishu. Edited by Keith Walker 