Almuth Schult threw her hands in the air before celebrating in front of fans and with her teammates, giving each one a hug. Wolfsburg's comfortable 4-0 win over Turbine Potsdam secured the club their eighth straight German Cup win, and their ninth overall. For the 31-year-old goalkeeper, it was the perfect send-off as she departs the club after nine years to join Angel FC in the USA. "It's not over for me yet, because we've still got the party," Schult told "ARD" afterwards. Germany's Federal President Frank-Walter Steinmeier watched on from the stands and chatted to Germany head coach Martina Voss-Tecklenburg before heading down to hand over the trophy. Once the medals had been handed and Steinmeier had left the stage, Wolfsburg's party began. Multiple players lifted the trophy into the air, before everyone walked around the field to share the moment with their fans. Everyone except Schult that is. The keeper was busy emptying a freshly-filled glass of beer over coach Tommy Stroot's head. "I wasn't expecting this," Stroot told "ARD" afterwards, delighted with the win. "We weren't expecting to come this far in a year of such upheaval. In the second half of the season our development was beyond planning. And now we're here with two titles." Weeks after winning the Bundesliga title, Wolfsburg's domestic double was secured. The club's ninth German Cup draws them level with record winners 1. FFC Frankfurt, and extends their own record - no club has won more consecutive cup games than Wolfsburg (the last time they lost in the German Cup was in November 2013). "It's a wonderful feeling to have won the cup again," said Ewa Pajor, who scored a brace. "It's a beautiful story. We have so much fun on the field and that's the most important thing." The defending champions set the tone early, with Potsdam only able to steady themselves through fouls. Cheered on by 17,500 fans in Cologne's home stadium, both teams were committed but it was Wolfsburg who struck first with Pajor's header. Potsdam were not deterred and created chances, but Sofian Chahed's side lacked concentration at key moments in the game. Chants of "Ewa Pajor" continued around the stadium after the first half an hour. The Polish striker, who scored nine goals in seven Bundesliga games this season, added a second header before Jill Roord's thunderous finish just before the break ended the contest. There was time for Schult to make a smart save as Potsdam played on in the second half as if they believed they could turn it around. But Dominique Janssen's deflected free kick ended any bit of hope the side that finished fourth in the Bundesliga might have had. Wolfsburg's bench celebrated the goal with a perfectly choreographed dance move on the sidelines. Late on, Wolfsburg had a corner and Schult sprinted forward. The keeper never got the chance to go for goal, but her teammates tried to involve her as much as possible. Schult's final moments as a Wolfsburg player were enjoyed alone, which was not the case shortly after the final whistle.