The Justice Department on Tuesday said an Iraqi man who sought asylum in the US had plotted to assassinate former President George W. Bush. The FBI filed a legal complaint in federal court in Columbus, Ohio, against the alleged conspirator, who was arrested early on Tuesday. The 52-year-old Iraqi could face up to 30 years in prison and $500,000 in fines if convicted. The man, a Columbus resident, told an FBI informant that he was seeking to smuggle at least four other Iraqis from Mexico to the US to aid the assassination, the filing said. He said they wanted to kill Bush "because they felt that he was responsible for killing many Iraqis and breaking apart the entire country of Iraq," according to the complaint. The Bush administration had waged the 2003 US-led invasion of Iraq after alleging that Baghdad had possessed weapons of mass destruction, a claim that was later proved to be false. The FBI said the conspirator had implied he had contacts with the so-called "Islamic State" group. He reportedly surveilled locations associated with Bush in Dallas, Texas, and discussed with an informant how to obtain guns, security official uniforms and vehicles to be used in the plot. But the filing said the plot did not appear to come closer to materializing. The 52-year-old arrived in the US in September 2020 on a visitor visa, and sought asylum in March 2021 after it expired. The FBI had informants contact him shortly after his asylum application and until this month, according to the complaint. Bush's decision to launch a war on Iraq has been widely criticized as a catalyst to the country's subsequent political turmoil and damage. The war toppled Saddam Hussein's government, but also resulted in the deaths of US service members and hundreds of thousands of Iraqi civilians. In a sign of Iraqis' anger toward Bush, in 2008, a journalist hurled a pair of shoes at the former US leader during a press conference in Iraq at the end of his last term in office. "This is a farewell kiss from the Iraqi people, you dog," the journalist, widely popular in Iraq, said. After the terror attacks on two mosques in New Zealand in March 2019, far-right politician Fraser Anning blamed them on "Muslim immigration." His words spurred outrage — and action from one 17-year-old, who smashed a raw egg on the back of Anning's head. The boy was arrested and released without charge. But it may not be the end, as online donations were made to help the teen buy "more eggs." In 2008, US President George W. Bush visited Iraq, where he gave a news conference alongside then-Prime Minister Nouri al-Maliki. A journalist, angry at the US intervention in Iraq, hurled first one shoe, then the other at the president, shouting, "This is a farewell kiss from the Iraqi people, you dog." Bush managed to dodge them both and later told the press that the shoe-hurler wore a size 10. Venezuela's acting president may not have a thing for mangoes, but his supporters seem to: Nicolas Maduro has been pelted more than once with mangoes with messages written on them. In 2015, a woman scribbled a note on the fruit, asking the president to call her and giving her name and number. She hurled it at his bus as he went by — and he later called her, granting her wish for a new apartment. In 2009, Italian Prime Minister Silvio Berlusconi was meeting and greeting public when a man with a history of mental illness hurled a souvenir statue of Milan's cathedral in his face. The man later said he had no political affiliation and apologized. Berlusconi was hospitalized and treated for a broken nose and two cracked teeth. He left the hospital after four days with bandages on his face. Dessert does not discriminate, and politicians of all stripes around the world have received pies or cakes in their faces, including German politicians. In May 2016, Left parliamentary leader Sahra Wagenknecht received a face full of cake during an event. The activist behind the cake said he was a member of an "anti-fascist initiative, 'Cakes for misanthropes.'" The cake appeared to be chocolate. German politician Joschka Fischer was serving as foreign minister in 1999 when he attended a gathering of his Green party in May in Bielefeld, North Rhine-Westphalia. A protester, upset at Fischer's support for the NATO bombing campaign in Kosovo, threw a bag of red paint at the politician's head, covering him in the color and damaging his eardrum. Author: Cristina Burack Last week, Bush made an apparent gaffe during a speech at his presidential center in Dallas. While it seemed like he wanted to condemn Russian President Vladimir Putin's war in Ukraine, he referred to "the decision of one man to launch a wholly unjustified and brutal invasion of Iraq — I mean of Ukraine,'' Bush said. "Iraq, too — anyway,'' he said, laughing, before blaming the slip of tongue on his age, saying simply "75." The comment also drew condemnation from critics and politicians, who argued that it was not funny. fb/msh (AFP, AP)