German Foreign Minister Annalena Baerbock has said Berlin was ready to support a gradual, EU-wide embargo on Russian oil imports. "And we are preparing this in such a way, that we could if necessary keep it up over the coming years," Baerbock told Germany's ARD television on Sunday. Her statement comes after Economy and Climate Minister Robert Habeck said Sunday that he expects Germany could be fully independent of Russian crude oil imports by the end of summer. The Economy and Climate Ministry said the goal was "realistic" in a tweet. In a statement, Habeck said Germany, the largest European economy, had already reduced its share of Russian energy imports to 12% for oil, 8% for coal and 35% for natural gas. Ukraine and other countries, notably the Baltic states, have cut energy imports from Russia and put pressure on Germany to do the same. EU energy ministers were set to meet in Brussels on Monday to discuss how to deal with Russia's decision last week to halt gas supplies to Poland and Bulgaria. "All these steps that we are taking require an enormous joint effort from all actors and they also mean costs that are felt by both the economy and consumers," said Habeck in a statement. He added the steps being taken to wean Germany off Russian energy "are necessary if we no longer want to be blackmailed by Russia." The German central bank has said cutting the country off from Russian oil completely could lead to higher inflation and a decline in the country's economic output of roughly 5%. Baerbock said that lifting sanctions against Moscow could only be considered once Russia had completely withdrawn its forces from Ukraine. European payments to Russia, worth billions of euros, are credited with keeping Russia's economy going. This week, EU diplomats will consider an embargo on Russian oil. The move comes after a decision to ban Russian coal imports from August. Currently, the EU pays Russia $850 million (€780 million) a day for oil and natural gas. Germany is one of the largest recipients of Russian energy. lo,ar/msh (AP, dpa)