Prosecutors from Ukraine, Poland, Lithuania and the International Criminal Court (ICC) met in The Hague on Monday and Tuesday to discuss the status of investigations into alleged war crimes in Ukraine. The meeting was held at the European Union's judicial cooperation agency, Eurojust, which coordinates the work of prosecutors. Estonia, Latvia and Slovakia signed an agreement during a two-day coordination meeting to join Lithuania, Poland and Ukraine in the Joint Investigation Team that will help coordinate the sharing of evidence of atrocities committed in Ukraine through Eurojust. After the meeting, ICC Prosecutor Karim Khan said that the International Criminal Court was "working toward opening an office in Kyiv" to support the investigations. The ICC has already deployed a team of 42 investigators, forensic experts and support personnel to Ukraine, the largest in the organization's history. He also said the teamwork underscores the international community's commitment to the rule of law. "I think it shows that there is this common front of legality that is absolutely essential, not just for Ukraine but for the continuation of peace and security all over the world,'' Khan said. Hugh Williamson, Europe and Central Asia director at Human Rights Watch, told DW that it was important that the investigative teams had already started their work. "The Ukrainian prosecutor's office is busy with this issue. The International Criminal Court has sent experts to Ukraine as well. It's important that these teams are well-coordinated, sharing resources, supporting the prosecutor's office in the work they're doing," Williamson said. Ukraine's Prosecutor General Iryna Venediktova, who also attended the meeting, said Ukraine had identified more than 600 Russian war criminals and started prosecuting about 80 of them. Speaking to DW in The Hague on Tuesday, she declined to offer an opinion on the likelihood of actually prosecuting senior Russian officials like Vladimir Putin, although she said also there was no doubt it was the Russian president and his team "who started this war" of aggression. "In our main anchor court case, we have more than 600 suspects of crimes of aggression, all of them top level of militaries, politicians, top propaganda agents — all of them, except presidents, minister of foreign affairs and prime minister, because they have functional immunity when they are still sitting on the positions," Venediktova said. Ukraine's prosecutor general said that each case was an individual tragedy, with some now etched into her memory. "It's impossible to forget. It's impossible to forgive. If we speak about just children and civilians who tried to evacuate from Kiev —  with their children, with pets in their cars, with huge letters "CHILDREN" [on the cars] and they were shot after this." Venediktova also told DW that it was a major benefit to have international investigators on the ground, partly as their view might be seen as more impartial than hers as a Ukrainian. However, she also cautioned that her team had been working "24, seven" for the last three months, including in areas very close to the front "which are not safe, which are dangerous." She noted that some international observers might not be able or permitted to do this. Three soldiers have already been convicted In Ukrainian courts, two of them on Wednesday, and the first on charges of murder last week. Both trials lasted just a few days. According to HRW's Hugh Williamson, impartiality is a key issue in the war crime investigation in Ukraine. "Therefore, the Ukrainian prosecutor's office needs to assess things through the judicial lens and make sure that trials are free and fair, which is a challenging task in a war situation," Williamson said. "But it's absolutely vital for that to happen if the results and the verdicts are to be seen as credible in the longer term." Hundreds of civilians took refuge in the Mariupol theater when it was bombed by Russian troops in April Moscow's invasion of Ukraine has been widely condemned as an illegal act of aggression. Russian forces have been accused of killing civilians in the Kyiv suburbs, as well as of repeated attacks on civilian infrastructure all over Ukraine. The meeting in The Hague isn't the only place accountability is being sought. Prosecutors in Poland, Germany, Lithuania, Latvia, Estonia, France, Slovakia, Sweden, Norway and Switzerland have opened investigations of their own. kb,dh/msh (AP, dpa, Reuters) An old woman in her damaged home in Kyiv: The serious consequences of the war are already being felt by the people of Ukraine. According to UN estimates, around 90% of the country's population could be hit by poverty if the invasion lasts 12 months. This could set the country back economically by almost two decades. In Ukraine's second largest city, Kharkiv, the starving population looted a shopping center in the Saltivka district. The situation in Kharkiv, Chernihiv, Sumy and in Ochtyrka in the northeast and east of the country is precarious. Local populations there have been the victims of constant missile attacks and aerial bombardments. In the capital Kyiv, a firefighter consoles a local resident whose apartment building was destroyed in a Russian bombing. She shares this sad fate with many other Ukrainians as Russia contends it is only hitting military targets. Civilian casualties are a daily occurrence, along wih the destruction of residential buildings. A mother and her newborn baby in the basement of a maternity ward in Kharkiv. Anyone giving birth in Ukraine these days may be doing so in makeshift basements. Numerous hospitals were bombed by the Russian army, including a children's and maternity hospital a week ago in Mariupol, which sent shockwaves around the world. People injured by shelling in Mariupol in southeastern Ukraine lie in the corridor of a hospital. The situation in the port city, which has been besieged for days, is catastrophic. The situation is similar in Izyum in the northeast, which is besieged by the Russian army. The Ukrainian government is looking for ways to deliver food and medicine to the captured cities. Residents receive humanitarian aid in the separatist-controlled town of Volnovakha in the Donetsk region. The eastern Ukrainian regions of Luhansk and Donetsk remain areas of heavy fighting. Daily reports from both the separatists and the Russian Defense Ministry indicate that they have captured more territory. Family members in mourning at the funeral of fallen Ukrainian soldiers in the western city of Lviv – where there have also been numerous civilian casualties. According to the UN High Commissioner for Human Rights, the number of documented civilian deaths since Russian troops invaded Ukraine on February 24 stands at 726, including 42 children and young people. It looks hopeless: An employee begins clearing the rubble from his damaged store aftea Russian shelling hit Kyiv. When will the store be able to reopen? When will everyday life return? This is anyone's guess. Author: Ines Eisele