Freedom of expression is quite expensive, especially for female investigative journalists in Africa. Nine years ago when I went undercover, my then-fiance wanted me to quit investigative journalism, including the big story I was working on at the time. I had to make a tough choice: Marriage and a family — or the pursuit of truth. I chose the latter and it came with dire consequences, with which I am still living. Men do not understand why I am unable — and will never — show them off on social media platforms, be it as display photos, on my timelines, or wherever else. They never make sense of the fact that I cannot bear their names, though it is for their good. They disappear immediately when I open up about not being able to publicize my children or family — or even share anything about them on social media. Some of my colleagues-turned-friends — women investigative journalists — in Africa, have fled their countries to safer spaces in Europe and the United States, for fear of their safety, while others are in the process of doing the same. Politicians aren't the only perpetrators: So are citizens and even security personnel who ought to provide us with protection. It is darker than you could imagine. And more grim than I could even begin to explain. Journalist Tobore Ovuorie has spent years investigating human trafficking, despite repeated threats to her own life Too many details and information remain in the dark wardrobes of my mind and heart. On either side, the pendulum swings don't do me any favors. So I live my life on edge, always looking over my shoulder. Certain body scents and other smells take me back to the dark experiences that I am suppressing. A car or van pulling over by my side — even on a busy road — sends shivers down my spine. Other female investigative journalists in Africa who I know personally live their lives in the same manner. We fear being manhandled and forced into vehicles and driven away to unknown destinations to be tortured over our work. There is no doubt that male investigative journalists in Africa report similar experiences. But our bodies are ravished by not just one, or two or three men when held captive. And, we are unable to share these dark experiences. How do we start such a conversation? With whom? And revealing details of procuring an abortion — the aftermath of a gang rape intended to silence us — in places such as Nigeria where abortion is illegal? When these moments creep out from the hidden corners of my mind, all I do is cry. But I am unable to tell anybody precisely why. In my mind, I die — but I'm still alive. The 2016 winner of Deutsche Welle's Best of the Blogs (The Bobs) prize for citizen journalism, the documentary "Razor's Edge" examines the situation that many secular bloggers and writers face in Bangladesh after attacks have left numerous people dead at the hands of religious extremists, including four in the last five weeks, because of their writing. "Frame By Frame" follows four of Afghanistan's new crop of young photojournalists, who're learning how to shoot stories after years of living under a regime which banned photography. After a screening at the US Embassy in Kabul, seven journalists from the local TOLO news were killed in a suicide bombing, driving home the dangers these journalists face every day. Bob Woodward and Carl Bernstein were two journalists working for the "Washington Post" who led the investigation of US President Richard Nixon's role in the Watergate hotel break-in that eventually led to his resignation. The pair wrote of their experience in "All the President's Men" which was made into a film by Robert Redford. Filmed in black and white to capture the atmosphere of broadcast journalism's early days "Good Night and Good Luck" stars George Clooney and focuses on tv newsman Edward R. Murrow's fight to expose the tactics employed in the US by Senator Joseph McCarthy in his 1953 "Red Scare" campaign to uncover "Communists" in the government and celebrity circles, a label which ruined many careers at the time. The lawsuit by Reverend Jerry Falwell against Larry Flynt, the publisher of the nude magazine "Hustler" serves as the backdrop of the 1996 film the "People vs. Larry Flynt." The film about the controversial pornography publisher shows his clash with religious institutions and the law. Three young women bloggers are the focus of Zurich-based director Barbara Miller's documentary (2012). From Cuba, China and Iran respectively, Yoani Sánchez, Zeng Jinyan und Farnaz Seifi use social media to bring awareness to the world about life under the dictatorial regimes in their homelands. Their work gets so much attention that they end up risking their lives to get the stories out. Danish Filmmaker Anders Østergaard focuses on the drama that unfolded in Burma in 2007 after Buddhist nuns and monks took to the streets to protest drastic price increases. After the protests turned against the country's military leaders, international news teams were kicked out of the country and filming could only be done in secret. Germany's "Der Spiegel" news magazine published an article about the sad state of the West German military in 1962, an article which brought out such an immense rage in Defense Minister Franz Josef Strauß that a search of the magazine's office was conducted. The arrests of editors led to an uproar among citizens who saw it as an attack on press freedom and protested, as this ARD film portrays. Author: Courtney Tenz / Conny Paul  The International Federation of Journalists recently revealed an astonishing statistic: As of February 9, 2022, at least seven female journalists were killed in the course of their work around the world this year alone. Year in and year out, awareness of the importance of press freedom is raised globally, with governments being reminded of their duty to respect and uphold the right to freedom of expression as enshrined under Article 19 of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights. However, the "silent" major players that stifle female investigative journalists' rights to freedom of expression — particularly in Africa — remain unchallenged and unaddressed. And so, the dark cycle continues. Indeed, being an investigative journalist in Africa is a lot harder for women: We pay a higher personal price, suffer under the long hours and high levels of stress birthed by untold and unspeakable anguish and other external factors. Deutsche Welle has been promoting democratic values, human rights and the dialogue between different cultures for more than six decades. Since 2015, our Freedom of Speech Award has honored persons or initiatives for their outstanding promotion of human rights and freedom of expression. Saudi blogger Raif Badawi has fought for freedom of expression in his country for years. His blog addressed political and societal grievances in Saudi Arabia. In 2012, he was arrested and accused of insulting Islam, religious leaders and politicians. Authorities sentenced him to 1,000 lashes (he has since received 50), 10 years in prison and a major fine in 2014. He was released in March 2022. Sedat Ergin, former editor-in-chief of the Turkish daily "Hürriyet," received Deutsche Welle's second annual Freedom of Speech Award while being tried for allegedly insulting President Recep Tayyip Erdogan. "Freedom of speech is one of the most fundamental values of humankind," the journalist said. "It is an essential aspect of our existence in human societies." In 2017, DW Director General Peter Limbourg presented the DW Freedom of Speech Award to Jeff Mason, president of the White House Correspondents’ Association (WHCA). "We see this award as recognizing free press worldwide and in the US and as a sign of solidarity and encouragement for those colleagues who have the exciting task of reporting about the US President and his policies, said Limbourg. The DW Freedom of Speech Award 2018 laureate was Iranian political scientist Sadegh Zibakalam. He was facing a jail sentence for speaking out against the political situation in his home country in an interview with DW. Zibakalam is famous for his intense debates with hardliners, repeatedly criticizing the government's official stance on domestic and foreign policy matters. Mexican investigative journalist Anabel Hernández is the recipient of the DW Freedom of Speech Award 2019. Her work focuses on corruption and the collusion between government officials and drug cartels. She gained international attention in 2010 with her book "Los Señores del Narco" (Narcoland) which documented these illegal relations. She lives in exile in Europe. In 2020, in the midst of the coronavirus pandemic, DW has decided to honor 17 journalists from 14 countries. They represent all journalists worldwide who have disappeared or been arrested or threatened because of their reporting on the COVID-19 pandemic. Tobore Ovuorie is the recipient of the Freedom of Speech Award 2021. Ovuorie has worked as an investigative journalist for leading publications in Nigeria for about ten years. In 2014, her most renowned investigative report to date was published. The widespread human trafficking ring uncovered by Ovuorie was involved in transnational sex trafficking, as well as organ trafficking. Ukrainian visual journalist and novelist Mstyslav Chernov and photojournalist Evgeniy Maloletka are the 2022 DW Freedom of Speech Award laureates. The Freedom of Speech Award recognizes their work on the AP report "20 days in Mariupol" and offers a unique account of Mariupol under Russian siege, with Chernov and Maloletka being the last journalists in the city before their evacuation. I battle mental health challenges including depression, post-traumatic stress disorder, anxiety and panic attacks — all caused by the slippery path of working as an investigative journalist in Africa. Some of my fellow female colleagues also struggle with some of these issues, but are afraid of speaking up due to the social stigma. We risk losing our jobs and everything else because of the mental health challenges caused by investigative journalism work! The spate of intimidation against me and my colleagues who work in the region labeled the "most violent for journalists" is on the increase. This is further hindering our independence, growth and development. We are attacked for doing our jobs diligently and the assaults are often sparked by the mere perception that we somehow cause some harm with our reportage. We risk being abused, jailed and killed, while harassment is already a way of life for us. Being a female investigative journalist is light and a major plus. It is not darkness, not a crime! A vibrant media plays an indispensable role to the sustenance of democracy. But this should be achieved in a safe environment. Unfortunately, not much is being done to ensure there are safe spaces to report. Which is quite discouraging, to say the least. Tobore Ovuorie — a multiple award-winning investigative journalist — is the 2021 Deutsche Welle Freedom Of Speech Award recipient. Edited by: Keith Walker